s a veteran of two knee surgeries, I was
only mildly amused by a friend’s observa-
tion that knees are God's biggest mistake.
Statistics seem to support such drollery.
Orthopedists treat more knee problems
than any other complaint, to the tune of
four million people a year, according to the American Acad-
emy of Orthopaedic Surgeons. And the latest research
shows that women may be more susceptible to knee in-
juries than men. The female pelvis is generally wider than
the male's, which is handy for childbearing, but pelvis size
also affects the way kneecaps glide. “It’s the angle from the
hips to the knees to the feet that puts women at risk for
more kneecap pain," says Dr. Jo A. Hannafin, orthopedic
director of the Women's Sports Medicine Center at the
Hospital for Special Surgery in New York City.
Women also have looser, more Gumby-like knees, and
they tend to use their muscles to protect their knees in dif-
ferent ways than men do, says Dr. Edward M. Wojtys, an
orthopedic surgeon at the University of Michigan in Ann
Arbor. Wojtys conducted a study in which women and men
stood blindfolded and were hit lightly in the back of the
knees, as they might be in rigorous sports like basketball,
hockey and soccer. The men tried to stabilize themselves
from such a blow by using the hamstring muscles at the
back of their thighs, whereas the women tended to use
their quad muscles at the front of the thighs, causing them
to put more strain on their knees. Women in the study were 
also able to generate only half the knee stiffness that men
did - a kind of instinctual “put up your dukes” position of
knee defense—making them much more likely to rupture
the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL), the tissue right in the
center of the knee that connects the thighbone to the shin-
bone and holds the shin in good position. “Women seem to 
be tearing their ACLs between four and eight times the rate
men are,” says Wojtys. “It’s a huge medical problem. Many
of these injuries, even though they’re operated on and sup-
posedly fixed, lead to lifelong problems and arthritis. When
you tear the ACL, you can damage the surfaces of the
joint. It’s just a matter of how bad and how soon.”
Wojtys set about to determine what basic differences
between men and women might be responsible for this
rate of injury. He found that during ovulation (when estro-
gen production is high) women have about four times the
expected knee injuries, but they have a lower rate >
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
