Known for creating evocative moods with original lighting,
Mario Sorrenti
photographer Mario Sorrenti continues that theme in “Brave
New Night” (page 254). “Mario’s use of shadows and colors
transforms the Utah salt-flat backdrop into a futuristic land-
scape," explains Bazaar art director Paul Eustace. You can al-
so see Sorrenti’s genius at work in the new Emanuel Ungaro 
Parallèle advertising campaign featuring Amber Valletta.
Photographer Malerie Marder found the perfect location in
which to shoot former Soundgarden lead singer Chris Cornell
(“Superman,” page 252). “I rented this house that had a very
Stanley Kubrick-A Clockwork Orange feel," says Marder. "I’d
never met Chris, but I thought the house would be interesting.”
Her first impression of the rock star? “His sex appeal comes
from his genuine sweetness, not from a macho place,” she says.
Malerie Marder
“And his arms are incredible-so elongated and beautiful."
Marder, who graduated from Yale's MFA program in May 1998,
also shot “Polish Wedding” for the August issue of Bazaar.
“I found it unnerving at first because I was sitting with rock’s
most amazing-looking man,” says writer Lorraine Ali of the time 
she spent in the backseat of a town car with Chris Cornell. “But
that feeling quickly disappeared. He’s totally down to earth and
has a sense of centeredness that is truly rare.” Ali, a contributing
writer for GQ and Rolling Stone, next plans to “hopefully travel to
the Middle East and trace my family tree,” she says. “Of course,
l need to start the Lorraine Ali Goes to Baghdad Fund first!”
An award-winning journalist and author, Jan Goodwin has inter-
viewed presidents, prime ministers, royal subjects and rebels,
plus a few celebrities. She was the perfect candidate, then, to
write about presidential hopeful Bill Bradley and his wife, Ernes-
tine (“Dark Horse Running,” page 242). “Bradley likes to disclose
just a portion of who he is. He tries very hard not to reveal the re-
Jan Goodwin
al man,” Goodwin says. “On the other hand, Ernestine is so
charming, bright, witty and natural, you can’t help but like her.
She may be his secret weapon in the campaign."
Ask around and you inevitably find that almost every woman
has been touched by breast cancer. Paula Dranov, who writes
about the disease in this month’s “Never Too Young?” (page
238), agrees. “My mother had breast cancer,” Dranov says.
“She had a mastectomy long before lumpectomies were con-
sidered viable options, and she died more than 30 years later of
unrelated causes. I doubt if any daughter of a woman who has
battled breast cancer can ever be sanguine about her own 
chances of developing the disease.” A health writer for many
years, Dranov stresses this message above all else: “We’re all
at risk, no matter what your family history indicates."
Henry Bourne
Bazaar had to search high and low to locate photographer
Henry Bourne to discuss his pictures of Marc Newson ("De-
sign's New Darling," page 246). We found him taking a well-de-
served rest in the Italian countryside. “We had to work complete-
Paula Dranov
ly through the night, with no sleep, to finish, so I could go on va-
cation,” he says. Bourne is due for a holiday because, in addition 
to this shoot, he’s spent the last year working on Le Capris, a
book about the London restaurant, which he describes as being
"about food, people and the history of the restaurant. It's a fol-
low-up to my last book, The Ivy.” 
-Karine Hundert 
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
