clothes. Expecting champagne, they got day-old Diet Coke.
“I LIKE BEING IRRESPONSIBLE. I
DON’T LIKE PAYING BELL ATLANTIC.” 
“That first season we couldn’t win, so we started from
zero," Jacobs says dismissively.
he asks rhetorically. "Yeah."
The next collection brought the bright glass-box venue of
His first apartment was not to his liking. LVMH politics,
Citroën's corporate headquarters, a new show stylist (Ja-
though not surprising to Jacobs - who’d endured the crum-
cobs tapped Bazaar's Brana Wolf in lieu of Joe McKenna,
bling Perry Ellis empire in the early '90s—were nonetheless
who had done the first Vuitton show and a previous Jacobs
show) and a happier mood. At this point Jacobs had as-
tricky and confusingly French. (Zoë Heller's frank reporting of
sembled his own internal team-English design assistants
Jacobs’ early miserable Vuitton days in the September 22,
1997, New Yorker caused a major crise at Vuitton. The inter-
Jane Whitfield and Peter Copping, French PR director
nal French PR machine responded by tightening its grip and
Camille Miceli and very French atelier head Christine
allowing limited access to internal affairs until this season.) 
Rezard-and began to take advantage of the design canvas
But Carcelle wisely extended to Jacobs the gift of time,
handed him. "In New York, we have one [type of] sewing
machine; in Paris we have 20 different glue sealing ma-
giving him three years in all to prove himself (unheard of in
the fashion world, where designers are often brought on-
chines," notes Jacobs. "At Vuitton, there's a person whose
job it is to develop fabrics. Europe is a big place. We have
board to design a collection whose fabrics have already
more at our fingertips. Vuitton has much bigger budgets."
been chosen by the guy ousted the day before). This calm
The traditional Vuitton canvas monogram walked down the run-
pace proved essential to Jacobs, who needed to adapt his
way, this time in often humorous (and too often never produced)
rebel New York sensibilities to the more visible playing field
renditions, like the motorcycle helmet, a cigarette case and the
of Louis Vuitton, to adjust to Paris itself and, ultimately, to
“man bag.” “We design what we think is right, and they decide
conquer his aversion to mainstream success.
The process was like the slow-motion dividing of a creative
what they think will sell," Jacobs says with a shrug.
Meanwhile new stores featuring Jacobs' designs opened
zygote-one fashion cell splitting into two. Jacobs' first Louis
on the Champs Elysées, Bond Street in London and-more
Vuitton collection, automne/hiver '98, was so minimal and
geared to attract a younger, hipper client-on Greene Street
Jacobs-esque that it was almost a negation of a collection.
in New York's SoHo. The party for the latter was so mobbed
Aside from a white-on-white embossed LV messenger bag
that some guests speculated that Jacobs had hidden in a
that opened the show, there was nothing that said “Vuitton”
Vuitton trunk somewhere in the shop, only to pop out at the
and everything that said Marc Jacobs, i.e. the taking of some-
end of the night. (Currently, Louis Vuitton has 250 shops
thing normal looking from the street and making it feel luxuri-
worldwide; seven carry ready-to-wear.)
ous. Criticism was merciless. Fashion journalists desperately
Jacobs' biggest breakthrough in the minds of the suits,
wanted the Big Story and instead got a cavernously dark set-
ting, simple lines with too flat shoes and anonymous-seeming
however, was his design for the new monogram vernis,
461
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
