ore often than not, doctors
have about 15 minutes to
spend with each patient, and
that includes the exam. The
bottom line is that time in the
doctor's office these days is precious. To en-
sure that you're not overlooking any underly-
ing health problems, here's a list of the most
important tests to get and topics to discuss
with your OB-GYN at your next visit.
High-tech Paps: Ask your doctor if she uses 
a new Pap procedure called ThinPrep. About
10,000 doctors nationwide are now using this
high-tech test that detects more abnormalities
than conventional Paps, making the traditional
Pap much less effective. With ThinPrep, instead
of smearing cells from your cervix on a slide (as
is done with the old Pap), your doctor places
the whole cell sample in a vial of liquid and
sends it to the lab. “It’s a better test because it
filters out the mucus and blood cells, allowing
for a clearer view of the actual cervical cells and
making it easier to detect abnormalities," ex-
plains Dr. Ramona Slupik, assistant professor of
gynecology and obstetrics at the Northwestern
akeup, ellen koenigsberg for sally harlo
University Medical School, in Chicago, and
medical editor of the American Medical Associ-
ation Complete Guide to Women's Health.
After having a ThinPrep test (or any test, for
that matter), don't assume your doctor's office
will contact you with the results; call them,
suggests Dr. Catherine A. Henry, staff internist
at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation and presi-
dent-elect of the American Medical Women's
Association. While some doctors’ offices use a
no-news-is-good-news approach, Henry tells
patients, “If you don’t hear from me, don’t as-
sume the test is normal; assume it’s lost.” 
Beyond birth control: You’ll be surprised
to hear that there are far more benefits to
taking the birth control pill than just ef-
fective contraception. The latest re-
search shows that oral contraceptives
reduce the risks of ovarian ► 328
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
