THE SPACEMAN COMETH
Kevin Spacey won an Oscar in 1996 for his role as Keyser Soze in “The Usual Suspects.” Now, thanks to
his career-changing performance in the stunning new movie “American Beauty,” he’d better make room for
another one. By Richard Rayner. Fashion editor: Judith Guillemot. Photographed by Cliff Watts
evin Spacey is about to take a vacation, his   you at first as an actor at all, a fat irony, because he is the
consummate actor of his generation, an actor right down to
first in nearly two years. Three days after
the very fiber of his no doubt immaculate cotton socks.
closing on Broadway in his acclaimed re-
There are no airs and graces. His wristwatch is a black-
vival of Eugene O’Neill’s four-and-a-half-
faced Gucci. He moves with Zen economy and an almost fe-
hour marathon The Iceman Cometh, he
line delicacy. He has a scar above the lid of his left eye,
bounces into one of his favorite Los Ange-
 residue of an altercation with a cat named Prince Albert 
les haunts, a restaurant on Sunset Boulevard he’d rather re-
when he was a kid growing up just over the hill from here, in
mained nameless. It's a place to meet and greet and hang 
that purgatory otherwise known as the San Fernando Valley.
out, where the waitresses know him by his first name and he 
 Spacey takes gum from his mouth, places it with exquisite 
enjoys them well enough to be inclined to joke and flirt.
deliberation in the center of a spotless white ashtray and ea-
“Make me one of those iced swirly frothy frappuccino mocha 
gerly hits his marks to talk about his new movie, American
things,” he says to a young woman dressed modishly in
Beauty, costarring Annette Bening and directed by first timer
black. “What? What? Why do I make you laugh so much?”
Sam Mendes, a young English director whose work for the
he asks in a soft, deadpan voice, because she does, indeed,
stage includes the recent London and New York runs of
seem to be giggling helplessly. “Am I so funny?”
Cabaret and The Blue Room. American Beauty is the buzz
This isn’t at all the Kevin Spacey we know from his various
film of the fall, having been described by no less than Steven 
screen personae: the creepy criminal mastermind Keyser
Spielberg as the best thing he's seen in 10 years, and a re-
Soze masquerading as a whining gimp in The Usual Sus-
minder of why he himself wants to make movies-giddy-
pects (a turn for which he won an Oscar in 1996), the de-
mented serial killer who outwits Brad Pitt and Morgan Free-  making praise, even if Spielberg's own company, Dream-
works, did produce the picture. In talking about American
man (two guys who usually never lose) in Seven, the bitter
loser squabbling and sniping with Judy Davis in The Ref, the   Beauty, for once it's right to reach for superlatives. This film 
supercilious, faggy murderer Jim Williams in Midnight in the   is howlingly funny, but not a comedy. It ends tragically, yet
Garden of Good and Evil and others. In the flesh, Spacey is   reminds us of the beauty of life. It centers on the disintegra-
much more high energy and high spirited and odd, a mixture   tion and renaissance of an executive, Lester Burnham
of relaxation and precision. He's wearing sharp black pants   (Spacey), whose relationship with his wife (Bening, who lets
and a crisp white button-down shirt with a Pentel pen in the   rip in ways both hilarious and terrifying) operates at a tem-
iirt, guc
pocket, and with his round, almost anonymous face, he  perature that makes the Arctic seem balmy. Although Lester
looks both bland and groomed, like an accountant about to   whacks off in the shower, lusts and drools over his daugh-
take a vacation, except for the black baseball cap that says   ter's sultry best friend and attempts to blackmail his boss
 NYU FILM. Which is to say that Kevin Spacey doesn’t strike   when he is fired, the movie concerns itself as much with > 
71
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
