like a nuclear reactor, recalls the gravity-defying optimism of the
BALAZS DESCRIBES NEWSON'S
sets for Stanley Kubrick’s 2001: A Space Odyssey. Last year, for a
Dutch entrepreneur, Newson outfitted a $40 million Falcon 900B jet
with lacquered lime-green walls and padded race-car-like silver-
and-black leather seats. The silver paintwork on the exterior looks
like an extruded Vasarely op-art painting. Canteen will also be
polished and luxe; according to Newson, the interior color
scheme of the restaurant was inspired by a 1970s Lamborghini,
with lacquered orange, chocolate brown and flashes of lime-green
surfaces, long stitched leather banquettes and Peugeot-inspired light
fixtures. Balazs describes Newson’s work as “sensual in a Hugh
Hefner way. When I took him to a Los Angeles strip club, I knew he
had the right attitude. It was pimpy in the way the inside of a private
jet is pimpy-about luxe and an awareness of luxe."
 Newson grew up in Sydney, a city he describes as “suburban,” in 
the ’60s and ’70s. As a kid he came into contact with design
through his mother, who worked as a secretary at an architectural
firm. “I can remember having bean bags and hanging cane chairs,”
he says. “My mother was obsessed with Marimekko. I grew up with 
all that stuff.” When his mother was hired to manage a beach resort
in northern Australia, Newson was immersed in an environment
that left an indelible influence. “It was an ultraluxurious modernist
place in this unbelievably idyllic location,” he recalls. “It was full of
Castiglioni, Colombo, Saarinen and Eames.”
 The glamour also seems to have rubbed off. “It became a celebrity 
hangout. Lee Marvin would go marlin fishing there. And Anita Ekberg
would visit. All these really cool people, though I had no idea how fa-
mous they really were. I was this little kid so everyone loved me." His
education in popular culture continued when Newson and his moth-
er moved to London and he hung out on the bean bags at Biba, a
boutique on the scale of a department store, while she shopped.
Newson’s own work is steeped in the explosive pop era—when
free-spirited designers experimented with new materials and
technologies – which he reimagines with an original instinct for
shape and punchy colors. Leafing through the pages of his forth-
coming book, Marc Newson (to be published this month by
Booth-Clibborn), familiar forms recur in numerous guises, as if
reproducing and mutating of their own free will. A curvaceous
plastic lounger shaped like a surfboard is reconfigured as a desk-
top dish on which to drop your keys. The sculptural tower resem-
bling a nuclear reactor that houses a stairwell reappears morphed
into a pepper mill or a drinking glass. Some of his products have
names such as Bucky and Orgone, in homage to designer Buck-
minster Fuller and Wilhelm Reich (a self-styled sexologist who
tried to store orgasmic energies in his Orgone boxes).
What happens next for Newson remains to be seen. With his
concept car for Ford, to be unveiled at the Tøkyo Motor Show this
month, Newson might jump leagues. (J. Mays, one of the men be-
hind the Volkswagen Beetle reincarnation, brought Newson to the
Ford project.) And, in the wake of such successes as Jonathan
lve's iMac design, major manufacturers seem to be waking up to
BUYLINE FOR
the idea of bringing personality to the design of mass objects. Giv-
en his passion for the futuristic, Newson’s idea of a dream job isn’t 
surprising: “Having had a taste of designing a car for the future, I’d
like to do more of that kind of project,” he says. “Maybe a space
station or even some dinky little space probe." 
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
