an embossed patent leather done in beige and blue, used for
traditional Vuitton-shaped bags. Now you can’t go anywhere
in London, New York or Paris without seeing these bags, the
wild little sisters of the traditional monogrammed originals.
“We had a little lunch in a Chinese restaurant, and Marc
came with a piece of embossed leather," recalls Carcelle.
“One hour later we had a product-committee meeting.
Everyone in the company was so thrilled to see this new
eye at work. It is exactly the same size and design as the
usual bag, but Marc has made it totally modern."
Glamorama. Excess. Sexiness. Fun. With this season’s
breakthrough Vuitton collection, the separation of the Marc Ja-
cobs line from its Parisian Siamese twin was finally complete:
Jacobs’ two worlds are now fully displaying their own personal-
ities. Ali MacGraw in Love Story was the reference, or creative
jumping-off point, for the Marc Jacobs label, while French illus-
trator Kiraz’s elongated, soigné, jet-setty women from the ’70s
were the vision for the Vuitton woman. Backstage in New York
were Garren and François Nars doing hair and makeup and
Venetia Scott, the English stylist, lending her special “melan-
cholia” to the look of the show. Behind the scenes in Paris were 
Eugene Souleiman and Pat McGrath doing hair and makeup
and the hyperkinetic Brana Wolf styling. The Vuitton show was
held by day in the glittering Citroën glass box; the Marc Jacobs
show was at night in some smoke-filled, cavernous slightly grit-
ty former bank. Bernard Arnault sat in the front row at Vuitton,
while at Marc Jacobs, singer Maxwell, photographer Steven
Meisel and Anna Sui cheered on their friend.
Every detail of the two collections reflected their different identi-
 ties. The Marc Jacobs girl looked like she'd stayed out all night-
tousled hair and visibly dark circles under her eyes. The Vuitton 
woman, with her exaggeratedly long locks, looked like she’d
spent the morning in the hair salon. This season’s Vuitton boot
has a flashy amber Lucite heel; the Marc Jacobs boot is coed
clunky. The Vuitton coat has the lascivious volume of a blanket,
with intricate seams and darts; the Marc Jacobs one is like a col-
lege girl’s great army-surplus-store find-except that it costs al-
most $2900 and is made from incredibly sumptuous cashmere.
“Coming here is weird now,” says Jacobs in his airy SoHo
Marc Jacobs studio, just days after accepting the 1999
American Fashion Award for best accessories. He sits at a
desk littered with Marlboro Lights, two glasses of Coke, an
Almond Joy wrapper and a handwritten list of things to do:
“bills, speech, Kim Gordon.” His desk is pushed together
with another identical one, a habit that began as a necessity
for Jacobs and Duffy in the early slim times before there were
assistants, rock-star allies and major corporate backing, the
likes of which they now enjoy from Vuitton. (LVMH owns a
third of the Marc Jacobs business, Jacobs one third and
Duffy one third.) These days, though, it’s rare that Jacobs
and Duffy occupy their intended seats. Duffy tends to New
York affairs, traveling to Paris frequently, and Jacobs stays
mostly in Paris, returning to New York “whenever I have to.”
A few blocks away on Mercer Street is the Marc Jacobs
store, a deceptively understated fashion mecca where $850
cashmere thermal tees walk out at a pace of some 150 per
season and where shoppers like Tom Cruise, Nicole Kidman,
Gwyneth Paltrow and Winona Ryder make seasonal pilgrim-
ages, dropping about $20,000 a pop. “My average sale?”
ponders shop manager Margherita De Valenzuela. “A walk-in
customer [as opposed to a prescheduled celebrity] comes in
and spends $5000. It's rare that someone spends less than
462
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
