Up Close The Spaceman Cometh. Kevin Spacey has won an Oscar, 
triumphed on Broadway and now stars with Annette Bening in the film 
American Beauty. By Richard Rayner. Photographed by Cliff Watts. 
82   First Person In the Hot Seat. Susan Faludi imagines turning the tables
on the press as she hits the road with her latest effort, Stiffed: The
Betrayal of the American Man.
 Etc. The Zany World of Steve Zahn. Richard Rayner checks in with 
163
Steve Zahn about his star-making turn in Happy, Texas and also re-
views Terence Stamp and Peter Fonda in The Limey.
168
 Media Quick Takes. By Sara Switzer.
SEE BUYLINE FOR DETAILS AND
172   Books Sentimental Journeys. You can visit China, the Middle East, Nor-
way or even outer space this month via four reads by Ha Jin, Jane Fletch-
er Geniesse, Linn Ullmann and Wendy Kaminer. By Maggie Kirn.
Music Female Phat Boys. Women deejays are spearheading a new age
176
of electronica by producing their own records. Alison Powell tunes in.
178
 Theater Kiki & Herb. This drag duo performs a stylish cabaret act 
that leaves fans both shaken and stirred. By Susan Kittenplan.
 Design Design Beat. Melissa Barrett Rhodes checks out what’s hap-
191
pening in the world of interior design.
op: miles ladin; Malorie Marder; Patrick demarchelier.
224
Michelle’s Next Move Now that screen goddess Michelle Pfeiffer has
wrapped her latest, Rob Reiner's The Story of Us, she's ready to
concentrate on her next project-domestic bliss. By Andrew Essex.
Photographed by Patrick Demarchelier.
234
 Beauty Bites Back A new exhibit at the Hirshhorn Museum chal-
lenges the very definition of the word beauty. By Ralph Rugoff.
 Dark Horse Running Bill Bradley's low-key approach to campaigning
242
is receiving surprisingly positive results. But can he keep his private
life to himself? asks Jan Goodwin. Photographed by Miles Ladin.
Design’s New Darling Australian Marc Newson is about to hit the
246
mainstream with a new NYC restaurant, an L.A. bar and a concept
car for Ford. Jane Withers reports. Photographed by Henry Bourne.
252
Superman Former Soundgarden front man Chris Cornell steps out on
his own with his album Euphoria Morning. Lorraine Ali interviews
rock's most reluctant star. Photographed by Malerie Marder.
50 Letters
 Contributors
68
HOTOGRAPHS,
Hit List
76
87 People
 Buyline
264
268 Horoscopes
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
