Thanks to Austin Powers and some fabulous choreography in 
the new Gap ads, the ’60s are swinging again. No better time,
then, for legendary photographer David Bailey to release a
new book of photos from that era, David Bailey—Birth of the
Cool (Viking Penguin). But don’t look for him to get sentimental
for the good ole days. “The book is about another time and
another place,” he says. “I’m glad it happened, but I always
prefer living in the now.” You can hear more of Bailey’s opinions
and view a few of his photos in “Twist and Shout” (page 492).
Listing all of Patrick Demarchelier’s accomplishments
during his 30 years as a photographer would fill a book.
In fact, he’s filled four; most recently, last year’s Patrick
Demarchelier: Forms (Rizzoli). This month, he adds “Fall
Hits” (page 422) and  our cover story, “This Time It’s Per-
sonal” (page 470) to his collection of Bazaar stories. “A
beautiful girl,” he says of Lauryn Hill. “I was impressed
with her rapport with the kids.” The September issue al-
so marks the seventh anniversary of Demarchelier’s ex-
David Bailey
clusive relationship with Bazaar. Bon anniversaire!
Photographer Wayne Maser refuses to take all the credit for
his stunning portfolio “Fur Out” (page 482). “I’d like to thank
[fashion editor-at-large] Sarajane Hoare for her exquisite taste
and never-ending support,” he says. Maser and Hoare’s other
collaborations for Bazaar include “Wild” (May ’99), “The Cher
Show” (February ’99) and “Be a Prada Sport” (October ’98).
“She was sweet, polite, warm and beautiful. Her eyes are
unnervingly intense,” says writer Alison Powell of our un-
divalike cover model, Lauryn Hill (“This Time It’s Personal”).
After an extremely long day (a 12-hour photo shoot with 13
kids), Hill spoke candidly with Powell about her motivation 
to start her children’s charity, Refugee Project. “We shared 
stories about how close we each came to falling in with
bad crowds,” Powell says. “No matter how little you think 
you may have in common with a talent like Lauryn Hill, the
truth is, we all had to get through sixth grade."
“I spent so much time in front of the camera during my
10 years of modeling, I have a huge appreciation for the
art of photography," says Helena Christensen. For this
issue, we borrowed her from Nylon magazine (where she
is creative director) to photograph the original style of a
few of her friends (“The Fashion Eclectics,” page 498).
Next, Christensen is working on her "most important pro-
ject to date”: She and her boyfriend, actor Norman
Reedus, are expecting a baby later this fall.
“This murder struck close to home,” says Montana-based
writer Maryanne Vollers of her piece, “Who Killed Julie
Maryanne Vollers
Ward?” (page 405). “I had many personal connections to
Ward: the American pilot who rented a cottage to her in
Nairobi was a friend of my husband's, and when I read her
letters and diaries, I realized we had many other common
friends and shared a sense of adventure and love of Africa.”
Helena Christensen
Vollers issues this warning to others who hear the safari life
calling: “Just remember to proceed with caution, and know
that sometimes even your most careful plans and your good 
heart are not enough to protect you.” — Karine Hundert
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
