flirty Club Monaco Eye Grease (11). Warning for the cool-phobic:
 The more you apply, the edgier you look. 
Chantecaille Beauté Real Skin foundation (12) seems invisible (the
emperor’s new clothes of the beauty world), but the silky cream does
minimize redness and wrinkles. Other perfect-skin products: Vincent
Longo Water Canvas (Trudie Styler's favorite, 13), Clarins Smart Stick 
(14) and Prescriptives Camouflage Cream (15).
Makeup artist Marie Josée Lafontaine uses the new Frédéric
Fekkai Velours lip shade (a sheer natural-but-there pink/red, 16) “on 
everybody." Other Bazaar editor faves: Chanel Matte Dusk (17),
M.A.C. Twig (18), Cargo Walla Walla lip gloss (19) and Clinique
Mauve Crystal (20). The most wearable dark lipstick: Trucco by Se-
bastian Sheer Lush (21), a wine red with subtle gold.
 One afternoon, Terry de Gunzburg, founder of By Terry cosmetics,
tapped her best-selling Color Skin Enhancer (22) around one tired
beauty editor's eyes. She instantly looked younger. Another P.M. pickup:
Origins Pinch Your Cheeks (23).
Best mascaras: Clinique Naturally Glossy Mascara (24) makes lash-
es look shiny; L’Oréal Voluminous Mascara (Andie Macdowell says
she’ll never try anything else, 25); Chanel Sculpte Cils (26) works on the
finest lashes. For pure tint without any heaviness, try CoverGirl Natural
LashDarkener (27) and Philosophy Supernatural Lash Darkener (28).
Or, skip mascara altogether and use a Shiseido Eyelash Curler (29).
Eyebrow pro Eliza Petrescu, at NYC's Avon Centre, is booked
through the year 2000; get immediate gratification with her Eye-
brow Essentials (30), a kit that comes packed with everything for
the perfect brow. Other top picks: Shiseido Eyebrow Shapeliner
(31) and Max Factor PenSilks Glide-On pencil (32).
HAIR HALL OF FAME
Stylist-salon owner Mario Nico says Philip B. White Truffle Shampoo (33)
“makes hair brighter and softer and brings out shine.” Then there’s three-
in-one Laurent D. Reparateur Shampoo (34), which cleans, conditions
and untangles. “If I forget it on a trip, I won’t wash my hair until I get back,”
says a picky fashion editor. You’ll really feel like a beauty insider wielding a
stick of lavender-scented Tancho hair wax (35), the pick of one of fashion's
favorite hairstylists, Didier Malige. John Frieda's Frizz-Ease line is another
big hit with stylists on the show-and-photo-shoot circuits. Odile Gilbert
prefers Frizz-Ease Instant Touch-Up spray (36) for greaseless shine.
Gabriele Vigorelli uses Frizz-Ease Hair Serum (37) for glossy definition. Ter-
ax Life Drops (38) “give hair a healthy shine without weighing it down,”
says stylist Jimmy Paul. The secret weapon of hair genius Mark Garrison
(of Mark Garrison Salon, NYC): L'Occitane Shea Butter (39), the "ultimate
conditioning and styling-texture tool in one.” Stylist Laura de Leon has
been using dry shampoo for years to give hair volume and a cool matte fin-
ish. She loves new Bumble & Bumble Hair Powder (40), which comes in 
four shades. It's the most fun we've had with shampoo in years.
Some editors take afternoon coffee breaks; others prefer midafter-
noon Frédéric Fekkai Smooth Hair Hydrating Hair Cream (41)
breaks. “It gets rid of all of the 4:30 P.M. frizzies,” says one editor. More
hair helpers: Magic Move (42), a Japanese cream (reportedly made
of soybeans), delivers 100 percent of your RDA of cool. The Bazaar
beauty department went through a bottle of Fudge 1-Shot Hair re-
constructor (43) in less than a week. It smells of pure coconut and
sprays on sexy texture. “Amazing, awesome,” say fans of Graham
Webb Super Stick Straight gel (44), which gives a Hollywood finish
to at-home blow-outs. Try life-altering Neutrogena Anti-Residue
shampoo (45) before doing anything drastic to your hair.
FAB FRAGRANCES
DAVIES & STA
We've yet to find someone who doesn't like Creed Fleurissimo (46). It
sprays on soapy clean and lasts all day. Hermès Amazone Eau de
Fraîcheur (47) makes you smell like you just took a shower-in the >
42
138
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
