suburban morality and teenage angst
as it does with male menopause.
American Beauty will, I think, quickly
find its place in the category of unique
masterpieces such as The Graduate,
One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest and
Ordinary People. It is emotionally spa-
cious, perfectly modulated and seems
likely to redefine Spacey's career and
kick it to another level.
“Kevin has been pigeonholed as a
Machiavelli, the cleverest man on-
screen,” says Mendes. “I cast against
type. Here he plays a man who’s blind
to the world and outrageous and fool-
ish and charming by turn. This is a
very different part for him, because
audiences can love this character
while being shocked by what he
does. I think Kevin realized right from
the start how big a moment this
would be in his career if it works."
In the restaurant, Spacey removes his
baseball cap, revealing thinning black
hair. At 39, he talks and bears himself
with the relaxed confidence of a guy quite
aware that he's in top gear these days,
really hitting his stride. "People tend to
At which point Spacey, examining me exam-
(evin's concentration is like a laser bean
ining his tongue nervously fretting at his lip, ex-
cuses himself and bolts out to his car to apply
o, you always feel certain t
something to an area that, he tells me, got
o find those moments that will make
burned windsurfing. Keyser Soze windsurfing?
rs stand up on the back of your
Kevin Spacey, the Valley Boy turned Juilliard
want you the way they discovered you, and I got discovered in 
standout and archetypal New York theater maven, windsurf-
very dark parts,” he says. “It’s been the greatest thing in the world
ing? It doesn’t quite seem to fit, but then for years journalists
to me when I’ve heard people say about American Beauty, “I nev-
have been trying to figure out who Kevin Spacey really is.
er thought he could do this.’ Well, I can do it, and I’ve been trying 
There’s the mysterious issue of his name, for instance—which
to tell people that for years. It wouldn’t bother me at all if I found 
is really Kevin Fowler. Where does the Spacey come from?
out they’d offered this role to someone else first and he’d turned
Spacey himself isn't letting on, and Internet speculation has
it down,” he continues, “because I’d say, ‘Bonehead. Thank you,
been rife. The game took an unpleasant turn a couple of years
bonehead.’ This is the way careers are made.”
back when a magazine article centered itself around another
Spacey first read TV comedy writer Alan Ball's screenplay
rumor, that Spacey is gay, and when he bounds back up the
stairs from the parking lot and sits down again, lip duly salved,
in the summer of last year, when he was still appearing in /ce-
man in London. “I knew right off that it was sensational,
 I ask what impact the piece had on him and his career.
ahead of its time on so many levels that are relevant to the
 He accepts the question graciously enough, even though he 
world we find ourselves in as we walk into the millennium," he
does become a little, well, animated, leaning back in his chair and
says. “The whole film to me is about perception and how
waving his arms, as though the memory-whatever he may say
easy it is to misperceive, or to perceive only what you care to    to the contrary—stings. “It didn’t have an impact on me at all. It
perceive. People ask, ‘How does a thing like Columbine, Col-
had nothing to do with me,” he says. “People say they’re appalled
orado, happen?’ I think this movie answers that question. It’s
 about my private life being dragged through the pages of a maga-
HIRT, PRA
all right there in front of us. There are usually unnoticed go-
zine. I was laughing with Ed Norton about this recently, because
ings-on between families and neighbors and coworkers that
my private life wasn’t put out there at all. My private life was intact.
are deep, subterranean truths once you examine them.” 
That was just presumption, rumor, based on nothing. 
72
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
