 enny Kravitz wanted the entrance 
of his new house to be a white faux-fur tunnel. The vision
came to him as he considered the brown-hued rooms of the
’50s-style ranch house he had just purchased on Biscayne 
Bay in Miami. Back then, the house had a very GoodFellas 
feeling, and Kravitz appreciated the kitsch value of the
flocked wallpaper, the Lucite chairs, the laminated curved 
headboards and the tinted glass. He even contemplated
preserving its ’70s-bachelor-pad glory. But then his imagina-
tion kicked in. “That was the beginning,” Kravitz explains. “It 
began with just two elements—white fur and bubbles.”
 That starting point has since evolved into a rock & roll 
fun house in which fur and custom-mirrored bubble tile
share space with four-inch-thick red shag carpeting and 
black patent-leather walls. When Kravitz finishes his U.S.
tour promoting his latest album, 5 (which runs through
the end of October), he’ll be ready to spend some time
in the house his interior designer, Michael Czysz, calls,
“the best nightclub in the United States.”
 It’s hard to dispute Czysz’s claim as you sashay down the 
metal-grill catwalk (lit from below, of course), enter the surre-
alistic realm of the seemingly infinite white-fur tunnel (mirror
tricks) and then pass through round James Bond-style red
glass doors that swish open without warning to reveal the
glare of red lacquered floors. All this sensory bombardment
inspires involuntary grooving to the pulsing beats that em-
anate from the state-of-the-art sound system.
“I don’t really like to go out anymore,” says Kravitz. “I
wanted to create a house that would be better than any
nightclub or lounge I would go to. I wanted that at home
so I could invite people over and have my vibe in the
house." And Kravitz's vibe is omnipresent: With its Clock-
work Orange-meets-Tommy aesthetic and inspiration
from Hendrix and Sly Stone, Kravitz's house is "a perfect 
fusion of his personal style and his lifestyle," says costume
designer Arianne Phillips, an old friend who has styled
Kravitz for many years. “It’s one-of-a-kind, and it has roots
in great '60s design. It's really sexy, just like Lenny."
Kravitz eschews raging parties in favor of intimate soirees.
His family of friends can gather on the 40-foot-long orange
serpentine couch, shoot some pool, sit at the white hand-
stitched padded-patent-leather bar (precious as a Prada
bag) or listen to the sound system inside what Czysz calls
the "heavy-petting room," a wacky, colorful upholstered
cave that’s an homage to ’60s designer Verner Panton. With
such temptation, it’s no surprise when guests slither up to
the white floor-to-ceiling shag-carpeted loft fondly referred
to as the “kitty box.” “I’ve caught people doing naughty
things in there,” Kravitz coos, “but I can’t tell you who.”
Whether Kravitz has lured anyone into what he describes
as his "very Gucci," liquid-blue bedroom remains a
478
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
