Hurray for Hill
l was very pleased with the cover of your September issue, which featured
African American Lauryn Hill [“This Time It’s Personal,” Alison Powell]. I was 
equally impressed that you chose to place her on the cover of one of the
most important issues of the year—the fall issue. It is refreshing and encour-
aging to see that Bazaar is beginning to take note of the rapidly changing
social dynamics and progressing along with the times. When fashion adver-
tisers, magazines and apparel manufacturers begin to show the diverse
spectrum of racial groups in their
 I just picked up the fall issue, and it 
promotional efforts, this will truly
is absolutely incredible, with a
reflect the realities of the world
wonderful cover of Lauryn Hill.
and the vast spectrum of beauty
Keep up the great work.
that is found in the United States. 
—Nadine Jones, Manassas, VA
—Keven Randolph, Atlanta
l wanted to tell you how glad I was to see Lauryn Hill on the cover of
the September issue. That picture has got to be, by far, the most
gorgeous one I’ve ever seen of her. Thank you very much!!
—Dannielle Tinder, via the Internet
our readers
Funny Girl
Cheers to Cheri Oteri for giving voice to the plight of funny girls everywhere 
[“Funny Girl Seeks Mr. Right,” September]. Besides the classic “I just want 
to be friends” line, there is nothing more annoying than hearing, “I think 
you’re really funny, but ….” at the end of a date. It’s nice to know that the 
honesty and hilarity of Oteri’s Saturday Night Live routines extend to her
—Rebecca Braverman, New York City
personal life.
A Serious Note
Maryanne Vollers’ piece on Julie Ward’s unsolved murder was heartbreaking to
read [“Who Killed Julie Ward?” September]. The courage of her family is 
inspirational -amid the beautiful fashions of the issue, this piece stood out as a
stark reminder of what really matters.
-Lisa Parker, via the Internet
DTOGRAPHS
Send correspondence to: Letters to the Editor, Harper's Bazaar, 1700 Broadway, 37th Floor, New York, NY 10019.
E-mail address: bazaar@hearst.com. Please include your address and daytime phone number.
Letters chosen for publication may be edited for length and clarity. Visit the Bazaar Web site, www.bazaar411.com.
44
BAZAAR NOVEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
