Faye Yager takes a swallow of coffee and sets her Styro-
foam cup down on the Dunkin’ Donuts tray. “She was sittin’
at that table right there," Yager says in her syrupy drawl, tilt-
ing her chin to indicate an empty booth nearby. “Nervous.
Paranoid. She thought she’d been followed.” She fixes me
with a tight-jawed stare, her unsmiling blue eyes impassive.
Behind her, a tableful of four chattering men have quieted
down to listen. They know exactly who she is.
"She said he was relentless, that he'd stop at nothing,"
Yager continues, holding my gaze. “And she was absolutely
right." Yager shakes her head at the memory of that meet-
ing, of that woman. In full makeup and pearls, pausing
every so often to demurely pat her auburn hair, Yager looks
somewhat out of place among the plastic tables and greasy
odors at this roadside Atlanta eatery. But her flinty gaze and
loud, brash manner betray her as the self-proclaimed “bitch
on wheels" she is, someone who says what's on her mind,
no matter how inappropriate; someone who can put you in
your place with a dose of her rapid-fire delivery. One look at
the grim set of Yager's red-painted mouth and there's no
mistaking that she is a woman of uncommon conviction.
And so when Faye met with that jittery woman here in
Dunkin' Donuts-where Yager interviews all her potential
runaways—she knew better than to share the woman’s
fears. Yager had been in this line of work for more than 10
years, honey-she knew what she was talking about. She
agreed to help the woman out of her jam. Two months later,
Yager delivered on that promise: She turned the woman
and her two daughters, ages five and seven, into fugitives.
This is Faye Yager's crusade, her sacred mission. She does-
n’t look the part of the renegade, to be sure: a ladylike woman
of 50 with a penchant for floral dresses and a fondness for
baking; the wife of a prominent Atlanta pediatrician; mother of
five. But come to Yager with a tale of spousal or child >
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
