Hussein Chalayan left the labels on his TSE blanket
looks (“By appointment to HRH…”—good English 
woolens irony). Marc Jacobs crafted his Louis Vuitton
coats from the house’s khaki-and-black travel rug,
constructing each garment from a single blanket—now
seen in Jacobian-cool white and red—and simply
adding pockets and darts for shape. The most literal
take on blankets comes from (who else?) Martin
Margiela, whose video demonstration of his feath-
Louis Vuitton
erlight duvet coat makes the idea of an endless inter-
national flight almost enticing. Like the classic Bermu-
da-bag set (five different fabric covers to dress up one
basic frame), this queen-size duvet with two sleeves
sticking out comes with a range of useful coverings,
like waterproof vinyl for rainy days, sweet printed bed
linens for air travel and all white for special occasions.
The home’s sudden and pervasive influence on
fashion is striking. For years fashion designers have
created for the home environment, but has the home
ever before sent such a strong message back to the
runway? And for those who feel it’s still too early to
think about bundling up, there’s always the skinny-
dipping-under-cabin-coat/blanket look or the bikini-
under-ethnic-blanket/serape one.
Fall’s blanket statement brings up another obvious
issue: Are these designers acting out of some latent 
“blankie” fixation? In the case of Marc Jacobs, the an-
swer is a definite yes. Jacobs toted one around as a
child and remembers his blue corded-cotton number
fondly. “When I was around nine, it was taken away,”
he recalls. “I didn’t gladly give it up.” John Bartlett 
used his security blanket to fashion costumes. “I al-
ways ran around the house with my blanket tied
around my neck, imagining myself as some strange
hybrid of Superman and the Flying Nun," says
Bartlett. “I definitely think this found its way into my
subconscious.” Donna Karan seems the exception,
having never had a blankie, per se. Yet she doesn’t
remember a time when she didn’t twist shawls,
sweaters, whatever around her shoulders, hips, waist.
A childhood hang-up? Most certainly. These designers
were bed-heads from the beginning.
Alexander
featuring his new home
CLO
McQueen
line, with lamps, rugs, and
Hermès
dishes. The emporium also
houses collectibles,
like funky Seiko watches,
Jeremy Scott's "Viva Avant
Allegri
Garde" tees and Malcolm
McLaren's new line, out this
month. What, no blankets?
160
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
