Special Advertising Supplement
The biggest statements for fall are an all-over
sense of romanticism, major sex appeal and
a feminine mixture of sumptuous elements.
This Personal Luxuries guide provides a multi-
tude of choices from fall's overlying themes for
you to create your own look. Here are the trends
that are happening this season.
Dressing
Inspired by the comfort and ease of home, and, more specifically, the bedroom,
there are coats made like duvets and woolly blanket shawls, ponchos and skirts.
Blanket pieces are even draped over suit jackets and coats.
cticism
Designers are mixing and matching a feminine blend of day and evening, flowers
and leather, and pink and burgundy. This fall is definitely not about one single look,
so have fun and be creative!
For the truly daring, the rock diva lives. Slick, tight and sexy leathers are mixed with 
velvet and fur, or long skirts, shawls, feathers and sky-high boots. Don’t be afraid
to pile on the jewelry, and go for anything bold.
American Bohemian style is interpreted through home-on-the-range looks like
prairie skirts, leather and shearling jackets, wool serapes (often with a Navajo
motif) and moccasin boots. Evening dresses are adorned with Native American
beading and trim.
ather
If you can wear it, chances are it comes in leather. There are skirts, skinny rocker
pants, jackets, coats, dresses and bags - from black and brown to hot shades
of yellow, blue, pink, merlot. Also look for exotic skins like pony and goat.
earling
Fur and shearling are back in full force! Serve it up classically, as in the perfect
three-quarter jacket, or go for daring, with ragged-edged capes and skirts. It's
even showing up in everything from mongolian lamb to mink for evening halters,
knee-length skirts, and the ubiquitous sleeveless coat.
ressing
This season, the chunky sweater comes in many variations. There's the oversized
drapey version and the bare little numbers that lose their keep-you-warm function,
but gain major sex appeal.
Moment
Play with space-aged, futuristic looks. There are NASA-inspired jumpsuits, struc-
tured androgynous suits, fitted hoods and details like cylindrical collars, plastic and
silver everywhere.
ories
The major shoe to own for fall is a knee-high (and higher!) boot - a great look to
try over textured knit tights and hosiery. Jewelry is back in a big way and requires
a personal touch. Native American turquoise jewelry is making a comeback with
majorly bold feather or turquoise earrings, bracelets and squash blossom neck-
laces. Fine jewelry makes a unique statement in bold shapes and colors and daz-
zling diamond pavé. It also wouldn't be fall without the right bag. Choose from fur,
shearling, ponyskin or way oversized versions of little handbags.
auty
There are only two ways to go with beauty this fall: the chic and easy look, with a
clean face, minimal makeup and neat hair (either slicked back or straight and
sleek), or the more flamboyant path, with dark, smouldering eyes and hair that flies
loose and wild, curly or straight.
Turn the page to see the best of what fall has to offer in-store
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
