THINK LASER VISION CORRECTION IS THE BEST THING GOING FOR EYES? THINK AGAIN. ELIZABETH DEVITA
Most of us grew up with certain assumptions about eyesight. You - one-word reply: implants. These tiny devices can be inserted into
the eye to correct vision without removing any of the eye’s natural
had good vision or you had bad vision. If you had bad vision, you
tissue. The first step on the implant track came last April, when
wore glasses. And when you grew up enough to care about these
the FDA approved Intacs, a plastic polymer implant designed for
things, you got contacts (soft or hard, or more recently, tinted or
people with mild nearsightedness (-1.0 to -3.0 diopters in pre-
disposable) and you resigned yourself to a lifetime dependency on 
scription-ese). The procedure, by all accounts, is painless (it
saline solution. And that was that. Or so we thought.
 takes about 15 minutes under an eyedrop of anesthesia) and 
What none of us realized was that behind the scenes at the
 consists of tunneling two tiny half-rings of plastic (imagine a half-
ophthalmologist's office, doctors were pulling their hair out over a 
dissolved LifeSaver split in two) into the periphery of the cornea,
so-close-yet-so-far predicament: They've known for eons that
explains Dr. Barrie Soloway, co-medical director of the New York
the problem with less-than-ideal eyesight is an imperfection in the
Eye & Ear Infirmary's Vision Correction Center, in Manhattan, who
shape of the eye. The problem was what to do about it. Ophthal-
performs the procedure. The overall effect is a flatter cornea and
mologists didn’t have the tools or the techniques, and the eye
better vision. Some ophthalmologists worry about scarring, oth-
was too delicate and necessary an organ to risk futzing with
when glasses and contacts could safely—if not conveniently—
ers about the implants protruding from the eye. But most doctors
 who've been inserting them, like Soloway, think they're wonder-
remedy the problem. But all of that has changed with the advent
ful. In clinical studies, almost three out of four patients with Intacs
of laser technology and materials like plastic polymers. Now oph-
wound up with at least 20/20 vision or better. The only known
thalmology has become one of the more cutting-edge fields of
side effect is dryness in the eye for about a month. Cost: $2000
medicine; ophthalmologists have turned into what many never
to $3000 per eye. On the horizon: Intacs for farsightedness.
dreamed they'd be, guys who can fix things; and vision-impaired
Then there are implantable contact lenses, which are in the last
America has what they never imagined they would have, options.
phase of clinical trials. These lenses, used to treat extreme near-
The procedure du jour is laser correction via a technique called
sightedness and farsightedness, have some doctors really excited.
LASIK (laser in situ keratomileusis), which involves peeling back the
"It's the most sensational procedure," enthuses Dr. Sheri Rowen, di-
layers of the eye with a tiny cheese-slicer of an instrument and
rector of Mercy Medical's Eye & Cosmetic Surgery Center in Balti-
whittling the corneas into more perfect prisms with a laser. The
more and one of a handful of ophthalmologists who have been
only concern about LASIK is that it's permanent, and though doc-
working on clinical trials for the devices. “We dilate the eyes under
tors don’t anticipate any long-term drawbacks, no one can say for
topical anesthesia, make a two-and-a-half millimeter incision, fold
sure how LASIK-corrected eyes will weather over time. Other new
up the lens, slip it in and tuck it behind the iris. The pupil is brought
technologies seem to revolve around two key concepts: adjustabil-
back to normal size and, almost immediately, the patient can see."
ity (you can alter them should your eyesight change) and reversibil-
Since no tissue is removed, the procedure is reversible. What's
ity (you can take them out should something better come along,
more, the vision you get from implantable contact lenses may be
which is not out of the question in today's high-tech atmosphere).
clearer than that with LASIK. In the first phase of Rowen's study, for
Implantable Options
example, patients were given LASIK in one eye and an implantable
Ask almost any ophthalmologist (even those who are madly in
love with LASIK) where the future is and you’re bound to get a contact lens in the other. Many preferred the implantable ➤ 530 
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
