e all know what it means to
glow. Children do it naturally.
And after a long vacation,
maybe we do too. But what
about glow-on-demand? Are
there any solutions for that
have-to-meet-friends-after-work panic, when you look a
decade older than you did at 9:00 д.м. This kind of in-
stant lift should be a major part of our skincare arsenal.
Skin Wattage
First, why does skin often look so blah? “Fatigue, poor
diet, dryness, age and sun damage,” all contribute to
lackluster-looking skin, says Anne Carullo, vice president 
of product development and marketing at Prescriptives.
Plus, "smoking, drinking and buildup of dead skin cells,"
adds skincare exec Gale Hayman. Fresh-faced skin has
“good circulation and good color, like that of a 15 year
old,” says Dr. Nicholas Perricone, founder of Cosmeceu-
ticals. He calls his new NTP Complex “face-lift in a bot-
tle” for its quick (20 minute) skin-smoothing abilities. It’s
the dimethylethanolamine (DMAE) in the stuff that jump-
starts cell metabolism, says Perricone, adding that New
York City newscasters slather the Complex over their
faces before appearing on camera. Truth test: I used the
NTP Complex, and my forehead did seem less rumpled
and makeup went on more easily.
At Prescriptives, Vibrant and new Vibrant Instant Eye
Brightener contain what Carullo calls “optical material,”
white mica and crushed cloisonné of pearls just lustrous
enough to give skin a “soft, lit-from-within-sheen.” Par-
ticles in the eye cream also deflect light away from dark
circles, softening them. Vitamins, minerals and plant ex-
tracts are in there as well to nourish skin. Reality check:
One exuberant beauty editor referred to Vibrant as a
“real kick-ass moisturizer,” and she’s right.
If you wake up looking ex-
hausted, Energizing Morning
Cream by Clarins is worth a
try. This moisture-and vitamin-
rich cream plumps up skin and
contains reflective pigments
that work to blur fine lines. Seventy percent of women
who tried it, according to Clarins research, said they
thought they looked “fresher looking” right away.
More Good Glow-Getters
Gale Hayman’s Youth Lift 2000 instantly fills in fine lines;
Diane Young’s Young Glow, a pearlized cream that
blends into skin, leaves just a hint of shimmer. For an
interesting matte glow, try Sebastian Skin Light Moistur-
izing Glow Gel. Biotherm has the connection between
bad skin and stress all figured out: Its new D-Stress line
contains vitamins and minerals as well as aromatic es-
sential oils that can soothe mind and body. Maybe
that’s the real key to glowing inside and out.
286
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
