lt’s a beautiful day in L.A.’s Wattles Garden
Park - palm trees swaying, kids playing, the
kind of day the rest of the country thinks
Hollywood creates on a studio back lot. But 
Chris Cornell can't be bothered with sunshine,
cool breezes and green grass. Instead, the
former lead singer of Soundgarden prefers to sit
in the back of a stuffy town car, its engine
running to keep the air-conditioning on. His
need to stay encased in the auto is not the
decadent, rock-star pose it might seem. In fact,
it's more a way of keeping things simple,
ensuring that there are no flattering environments
to render him in a loftier light. The 6-foot-2-inch
singer is, arguably, one of rock's finest-looking 
men, naturally suited for godlike positioning
against a beautiful backdrop. But the guy who
made a name for himself with a rabid-then-
pristine falsetto, an impassioned delivery and a
maniacal stage presence, has learned how to
keep a safe distance. He's always pulled back
from the sort of media analysis that dogged
Seattle peers like Pearl Jam, and has artfully
dodged the mass adulation that overexposed
and finally destroyed cohort Kurt Cobain.
Cornell perfected alternative rock’s best poker
face and gained a reputation as a man of
mystery. Today, he's dressed in a pair of faded,
tight black pants, a loose ribbed tank top
and beat-to-hell motorcycle boots. He grabs
a beer, opens it with the edge of the seat-
belt buckle and quietly asks, “Want one?”
One might expect a more bombastic 
approach from an artist who, along with his
band Soundgarden, helped forge the genre of
grunge. They did, after all, revive hard rock after
big-haired metal left it bloated and lifeless, as
well as influence the likes of Pearl Jam and 
outlast supernovas like Nirvana. But they were
also one of the few bands that suffered no
major drug problems, no headline-grabbing
conflicts. Their 12-year career - consisting of
three platinum albums-is a miracle considering
the self-destructive scene from which they
sprang. Now, two years after the band's
amicable split, Cornell is reemerging as a solo
entity, exploring the middle ground between 
sonic bedlam and melodious emotion with 
his solo debut, Euphoria Morning (A&M). 
“People usually approach me with severe
caution,” says the 35-year-old. “There was
always an emphasis on me as the angry young 
man, the hesitant rock star. When people met
me in person, they'd be defeated before they
walked in the door, then be pleasantly
RAINE ALI DISCOVERS THE SOFTER SIDE OF THE ORIGINAL GR
surprised because I didn't hate them or the
PHOTOGRAPHED BY MALERIE MARDER
human race. Sometimes, they'd > 263
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
