paid $200 to write it is over-
dosing on the floor. And so on.
Sugar Town happens in a sunlit
and shimmering Los Angeles
landscape that is only partly a nightmare. Ally Sheedy is splen-
did as the costume designer who is ground to dust by the
superbly manipulative Gwen, and Rosanna Arquette has a
wonderful, possibly career-reinventing role as Eva, Clive's sexy,
steadfast wife, a onetime star of horror flicks who now only
gets offered parts as Christina Ricci’s mother. It’s the chicks
he idea that the rock & roll business is a rat  who call the shots here, while the guys shamble through,
 getting shagged or dragged along-usually by what’s be-
fight between those afraid they’re losing their
 tween their legs. Sugar Town is perhaps the best L.A.
stardom and those desperate to gain it isn’t an 
 movie since The Player and, like Altman's picture, has the 
original one, but it is used to brilliant effect in 
 quick and improvised texture of reality. 
Sugar Town, the new comedy from writing 
From L.A. to Paris, and the French writer-director
and directing team Allison Anders and Kurt 
 Catherine Breillat's icily brilliant Romance, which manages
Voss. A group of faded rock legends, including Clive (John 
wholly and successfully to subvert the conventions of how
Taylor, formerly of Duran Duran), Nick (Michael Des Barres)
sex is presented in the serious cinema. This movie begins
and Jonesy (Martin Kemp, of Spandau Ballet), realize that 
their best and perhaps only chance of a future is to get back
where most art films leave off, as the camera ducks down
and down, watching what no self-respecting nonporn lens is
together for a hopefully lucrative swan song. Intertwined with 
supposed to see: the heroine, Marie (Caroline Ducey, an
their story is that of a scarily amoral young singer, Gwen (a
great, funny performance from newcomer Jade Gordon),
opaque beauty who, through the course of the picture,
comes to burn with an unholy fire), calmly handles and
whose ambition is as monstrous as her talent is questionable.
strokes her lover Paul and then begins to perform oral sex. 
 The movie's success lies in the precise and skillful manipula-
 Marie is being driven crazy because Paul-a dumb 
tion of its various tones: goofball comedy, tender observation,
male model, played by the exquisitely vain Sagamore
a cool, almost disgusted satire that is crisp, not overblown.
Stevenin-won’t screw her anymore, so she picks up a
Clive mopes around in a shirt that once belonged to Scottish
guy in a bar, allows herself to be raped by a street thug
soccer legend Dennis Law. Nick is distraught when a gor-
and enters into a bondage relationship with the principal
geous teenager sidles up to him in a bar and asks for his auto-
 of the school at which she teaches.
graph - for her mother. The opportunistic sociopath Gwen gai-
 The odd and disturbing thing here is the calm, almost
ly trips out the door with the tape of a song while the guy she’s
glacial gaze that Breillat brings to the material, nor is there
any feminist sieve. At no point do we feel that Marie is be-
ing exploited or that the film itself is ripping us off, even
while the camera lingers over shots so graphic they make
9 1/2 Weeks and Last Tango in Paris look like Disney fare.
Breillat explores the areas between submission and depen-
dence, bestial desire and emotional renewal, in a way that
not only provokes and disturbs, but ultimately persuades
us that these contradictory forces are indeed the hidden
side of all sexual interaction. Romance contrives to have its
cake and (excuse me) eat it too. It’s a strangely troubling
and erotic film, ending on a note that combines literally ex-
plosive triumph with frisky comedy.
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
