GLOBE-TROTTER,
EFF TO RIGHT.
JACOBS IN PARIS
WHEE I GER; AT THE
on ATELIER: IN
CKING OUT HIS
MEN'S LINE IN NYC.
n the world according to Marc Jacobs, New York is under-   apartment. And I can live on escargot and steak au poiwre.”
statedly cool; Paris, hot and sexy. New York is melancholy;
“I don’t know if you are aware,” begins the famously
Paris, optimistic. New York stands for clubbing, the latest
buttoned-down Yves Carcelle, president of Louis Vuitton,
restaurant and apartment-as-crash-pad; Paris means a
adopting the same measured tone that he would use to
chic arrondissement, a grown-up flat and signed deco
deliver news of an LVMH takeover, “that Tiger has moved
pieces. Marc Jacobs’ own label, headquartered in SoHo, is
to Paris.” It seems that when Tiger, Jacobs’ 10-year-old
groovy-luxe, timeless American sportswear, while his Louis
dalmatian, and Rover, his 18-year-old cat, finally made it
Vuitton ready-to-wear, based on the banks of the Seine, is
 to France, Jacobs’ relocation was complete.
Euro-flash sexy, logoed and universally recognizable.
As a teenager in the late ’70s, Jacobs idolized the Rive Gauche
After three years of jetting across the Atlantic, Jacobs
woman, loved the New York Dolls and hung out at clubs like Hur-
seems to have struck the perfect balance between his two
rah. His first job was at Charivari, New York’s avant fashion retail
design realms, turning out a perfectly hip Marc Jacobs fall
template. At that time he met Robert Duffy, his business partner,
’99 collection in New York and then, three weeks later, a
alter ego and friend. Jacobs’ talent for design was originally nur-
glamorous and heavily accessorized (read: near future fi-
tured and then recognized at the Parsons School of Design,
nancial success) Louis Vuitton line in Paris, a performance
where he won the Perry Ellis Gold Thimble and the student of the
that had LVMH's Bernard Arnault-not one to reveal him-
year award (sounds ironic, I know) in 1984. After school, he and
self in this way—practically dancing on the runway.
Duffy started Marc Jacobs, doing everything themselves. “For our
“I guess I’ve really become Dr. Jacobs and Mr. Marc,” ad-
first show, in '85, we wrote the invitations ourselves, set up the
mits the 36-year-old Jacobs of his compartmentalized exis-
chairs, asked friends to help,” Duffy recalls. Still, the young team
tence. That this bad-boy design demon, who long aspired on-
couldn’t find seats enough for the overcapacity crowd. In 1987,
ly to turn out groovy understated American clothes, has built
the Council of Fashion Designers of America honored Jacobs with
a globally successful Vuitton fashion house in three short sea-
the Perry Ellis Award for New Fashion Talent. From 1989 to 1992,
sons surprises no one who's followed his career. That he's
 Jacobs designed the Perry Ellis collection, turning out the still fa-
actually picked up and moved to Paris, however, does.
mous Babe Paley collection, the rock & roll circus collection and
“My thing is with the energy of Paris,” Jacobs explains. “I was
the seditious and groundbreaking grunge collection, before the
SPREAD: HAIR
born and raised in New York. When I was 17, I lived in Paris for a   end of that label and a return to his own in 1993.
month studying design and I cried when I left. I love the French. I 
He has since racked up three more CFDA awards and a VH1
love hearing French. I love seeing the sky. I love my lifestyle. I love
award, never losing his roguish touch onstage—cigarette in
coming to work." (His route takes him from his 7th arrondisse-
hand, wearing sneakers, messing with his hair, mumbling and
ment apartment - located almost directly above the Left Bank
PREVIOUS
so on—announcing later how much he hates awards.
Louis Vuitton shop-across the Pont Neuf to the all-new Ate-
At one point, he wasn’t so crazy about Paris either. His begin-
lier Louis Vuitton on the other side of the Seine.) “I love my 
 nings at Vuitton were notoriously uneven. “Was it a rocky start?”
460
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
