used to wonder why older ladies would go out
of their way to talk to me. They chat with me in
elevators. They stop me on street corners. They
sidle up in the supermarket-checkout line. “Well,
I’ll be,” a lady of a certain age will say, inspect-
ing my purchases. “Is it pear season already?” 
Was it because I looked friendly? Or perhaps I re-
minded them of someone? The real reason became
clear last fall when I got into a curbside conversation in
my Manhattan neighborhood with a lady named Lillian,
who homed in on me while she was walking her poo-
dle. As we chatted away (something about the merits
of cats versus dogs), it dawned on me that we were
wearing the same damn outfit: slightly ratty leopard-
print coat, red lipstick and square vintage handbag.
Lillian, apparently, saw a kindred spirit.
 I have a closet full of those handbags, shoes and coats. 
Not to mention gloves, antique compacts and all manner
of sequined sweaters. I attribute my deep love of vintage
to my grandmother, heretofore known as Ma. (“‘Grand-
ma’ sounds so old,” says Ma, who is 84.) For years, Ma
has saved and archived all of her outfits in a huge walk-in
closet, which is arranged by color: coral, turquoise, tan,
pink. And, because she has kept her svelte figure, all of
her ensembles remain in regular rotation.
 Not only has Ma always been beautiful, she has always 
been beautifully groomed. She is part of a rapidly disap-
pearing generation of seniors who wouldn’t dream of
leaving the house without full makeup, stockings, earrings 
and a tasteful color-coordinated outfit. The patron saint of
the groomed lady is the inimitable Virginia Graham, who
died about a year ago. Once the host of Girl Talk, a ’60s
chat show, this was a woman who got her hair done at
Eva of New York and had a full manicure and pedicure
right before a trip to the hospital to get a face-lift.
 Ma has no interest in plastic surgery, but you won’t 
catch her in Reeboks and a world's greatest grandma
T-shirt either. The sweatpants and hip-packs of her gen-
erational sisters who have “let themselves go” are not
for her. Even my grandmother's neighborhood is well
groomed. She lives in Sun City, AZ, a retirement com-
munity near Phoenix that boasts neatly laid out tracts of
land with carefully tended rock gardens and pristine  ➤
62
BAZAAR NOVEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
