iki & Herb are cabaret's answer to The
Blair Witch Project: no budget, lots of
underground buzz and so frightening
to watch. With her smeared makeup
and a signature bow on her matted
bouffant, Kiki (Justin Bond), accompa-
nied by her wordless piano-playing sidekick, Herb
(Kenny Mellman), pours her heart out (as well as pour-
ing more than a few Canadian Club and gingers). She
relives her life story through her own slurred song 
stylings—Pearl Jam mixed with Bing Crosby—explain-
ing how show business has destroyed her, but that she
cannot, ladies and gentlemen, live without it.
For example, Kiki always wanted a Bob Mackie dress, so
she looked through the garbage outside of Carol Burnett's
house in Beverly Hills, “and that, ladies and gentlemen, is
the dress you see before you today. With me in it."
Bond and Mellman began performing a conventional drag
revue in San Francisco in the early '90s. Then one night,
consoling themselves with alcohol in front of a less than full 
house, their monster alter egos as drink-and-drug-addled
former mental patients were born. Since then, the decadent 
duo has played everywhere from New York to L.A., Australia
to Canada, and even at Madonna’s 39th birthday party.
 Next up for Kiki & Herb? “We’re working on a CD called 
Kiki & Herb: Tainted Royalty," purrs the chanteuse. They
are playing at Fez in New York City through November,
itterati's favorite dysfunctional, drink-
then they segue into their infamous Christmas show. Last
year, Kiki belted out a medley of “Rudolph the Red-Nosed
Reindeer,” “Smells Like Teen Spirit” and Kate Bush’s “Run-
ning Up That Hill," so anything is possible.
Sigmund Freud, is directed by John Malkovich at
Familiar faces, revivals and new twists on classics
Chicago's Steppenwolf Theatre ... Dancing at
make for a great season ahead. Look out for mu-
Lughnasa playwright Brian Friel's new drama is
sicals of Jane Eyre and James Joyce's The Dead
Give Me Your Answer, Do! ... The Glimmer Broth-
... Woody Harrelson makes his Broadway debut
ers, about a family of jazz musicians, is written by
as the huckster who changes a small town in
Side Man's Warren Leight ... Amadeus, directed
N. Richard Nash's The Rainmaker ... Honey-
by Sir Peter Hall, returns to Broadway ... Dutch
voiced Audra McDonald plays a modern-day
Medea in Marie Christine ... Morning, Noon and  director Ivo van Hove brings us an avant-garde
Night is Spalding Gray's latest, a monologue
take on Tennessee Williams’ A Streetcar Named
Desire ... Neil Simon premieres a new comedy,
about watching his children grow up ... Shake-
The Dinner Party, at L.A.'s Mark Taper Forum ...
speare out of love: A new version of Kiss Me,
The Sondheim musical revue Putting It Together
Kate stars Brian Stokes Mitchell and Marin Mazz-
will star Carol Burnett every night except Tues-
ie ... Liev Schreiber plays Hamlet at New York's
 days, when Kathie Lee Gifford will hit the stage. ■
Public Theater ... Hysteria, about the last days of 
178
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
