TOSC
he’d never explored. To familiarize himself with mob man-
ners, he and Hurley researched in the traditional way. “We
spent a lot of time with....” Grant pauses. “I hesitate to
say mob, but people of that charming Italian-American
community in New York. A lot of pasta. They just adore
Elizabeth. Last week they sort of gave a big birthday cele-
bration for her, and you’ve never seen presents and flow-
ers like it: ‘Elizabeth, you are a princess! New York City is
your city! If there’s anything you need, you tell us! If any-
one gives you trouble, we’ll throw them in the river ...’
They really say that stuff. It’s magnificent.”
Grant's next commitment is to act in the Woody Allen
fall '99 project. A fax from Allen simply turned up one
day saying that he’d like Grant to play a charming so-
phisticate who turns out to be something of a villain. "So   says. "To watch the telly and get a curry in. There’s nothing
you’d be perfect,” Allen wrote. Grant, who has yet to 
 there. Elizabeth has gutted it. There's a computer and a telly
speak with Allen, seems both amused and thrilled by  and a sofa and one fork.” He chuckles. “What else does a
this. “He’s been a huge mythical figure in my life,” Grant - man need?” he says mockingly. “A real man.”
explains; he used to dream about Allen with some regu-     When pressed in interviews, he has taken to saying
 that maybe he and Hurley should get on with having chil-
larity, dreams in which the two of them would be hanging
out together in Allen's New York apartment, chatting  dren because it's increasingly embarrassing at Christ-
about this and that. “I’ve had almost as many Woody 
 mastime to be the only one of your contemporaries with-
Allen dreams,” Grant says, “as queen dreams.” (The  out them. But here, too, his dreams seem telling. The
queen dreams are somewhat similar: "We're just having a   night before last, Grant dreamed of an old friend. In the
lovely chat and a cup of tea. But then, frequently, 10 
 dream Grant's friend and his wife had a baby. But the ba-
minutes into the conversation, I realize that I’m naked. 
 by was ill - “with terrible jaundice,” Grant says, “and a
You know, all the classic things." He adds, brightly, 
sort of scrofula”—and, just as tragically, his friend
“Maybe I’ll get a fax from the queen next week.”)
seemed to have changed. “He used to be so funny, and
Grant's real professional ambition is sweetly traditional: 
 now he was this serious, worried father." 
All he really wants to do is to write and direct. “I feel a bit
I remind him that in the old days he once memorably ex-
frustrated at having been in one of the service industries 
plained he didn’t fancy children on aesthetic grounds, be-
of creativity for so long," he says, "which is what acting
cause of all the primary colors. “Well,” he says, “you know
is. Rather like being a violinist. I want to be the compos- 
what's it’s like-people’s homes with kiddie stuff lying
er. The more time you spend on a film set," Grant says 
around. Listen, I haven’t got great taste, but children’s toys
ruefully, “the more you realize the director’s the only one  are fucking hideous. Particularly modern ones. They’re all
really having fun." He has an idea for a screenplay-a 
 right, I suppose, if there’s one of them, but when there are
comedy-that he wants to write later this year, and then  20 and they're all broken and you sit on them....”
direct, if he can rebuff the acting offers being sent his
Grant shrugs. "Listen, I'm sure both of us will change as
way. When he mentions those offers, it's as though he soon as we"-he hesitates, as if searching for an accept-
feels they are being sent to torture him.
able verb-“spawn. But I don’t care for all that stuff.” A grin.
Grant and Hurley Ilve in London where, after 12 years in a “I imagine that now that I’m richer than I was it wouldn’t be
small apartment, they recently moved into a Chelsea town-
too bad; you could just get a nursery, just bung them all in
house. Grant professes to hate it and still slopes back to the 
 there with six nannies and lock the door." 
flat when he can. "It's nice to have a little safety valve," he
Perhaps he isn't ready just yet.
98
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
