Tommy Hilfiger Color, on their current tour. 
The Corrs bought their first makeup at the
chemist around the corner in Dundalk. “We’d
buy whatever was cheapest," says Caroline.
“Awful blue shadows and icy pink lipsticks. It 
was horrid.” It’s a different scene today at Hil-
figer headquarters in New York. While Jim, the
oldest at 34, patiently sips a Pepsi in the corner, 
the sisters gather around a pile of Hilfiger make-
up to make their picks. The vast spectrum of
Hilfiger Color blows the girls away: 36 lipstick
shades, 38 nail polish colors, 36 eyeshadows,
plus lip and eye pencils, liners and mascara.
“We could be here forever,” says Andrea, 25,
the lead singer and baby of the family. Caroline
immediately reaches for Insane, an intense
black shimmery shadow: “What a mad color!
We’ll each need one of these!” The girls won’t 
take the stage without a smoky eye. “The dark-
er, the better—it has to last through the en-
core!" says Caroline. It's clear that this green-
eyed smartie (who picked up drumming by
watching an ex-boyfriend) has learned some-
thing new from every makeup artist she’s met. 
 The other sisters keep an eye on Caroline's pile 
while they make some choices of their own.
Sharon, 29, the oldest sister, tests every vibrant
lipstick on the back of her hand and picks Elec-
tronika, a tough maroon. She also requests a few 
tubes of Hip Hop, a high-voltage gloss laced with
glitter. A wee brunette with Stevie Nicks eyes, An-
drea picks up All Talk Lip Crayon in Call Forward,
a barely there shimmer. “I’ll use this as both liner
Their mother and father, Jean and Gerry,
and lipstick,” she says. Each grabs a bottle of Hil-
were a small-town Irish-Catholic take on Sonny
figer’s Get Lost makeup remover. “We go through
and Cher and spent every Saturday night
gallons on the road,” says Sharon. “This one’s
throughout the '70s singing Top of the Pops
great. You don’t have to rub to get the color off.”
“I agree,” chime in Andrea and Caroline.
covers in the local lounges of Dundalk. The
three girls would crowd on the bed to watch as
The Corrs never disagree (in public, at least).
Jean transformed herself from mom to musician 
Jim compares their calm, well-mannered little so-
with the perfect red lipstick, just-so liner and a
ciety to that of a packed metropolis. “It’s like living
respectable amount of mascara. “Once she left, 
in Tokyo or New York City. For all those people to
we’d sneak back in and play with her lipsticks
function together, there has to be a code of po-
all night long," remembers Caroline, 26, the
liteness, a respect of boundaries.” They don’t do
middle sister and manic drummer.
drugs, they don’t fight, and as far as rock drama
Tommy Hilfiger, always on the cutting edge of   goes, they wouldn’t fill five minutes of VH1’s Be-
cool, first met the Corrs in Washington, D.C., 
 hind The Music. But they do take risks with their
when they opened for the Rolling Stones. "I just
makeup. Andrea snags a turquoise liquid liner
he Corrs sing the
fell in love with them," says Hilfiger. Combine their
and neon-purple mascara and wears the shock-
love of makeup with Hilfiger’s love of music and
ing combo to dinner at Moomba that night. "I re-
you’ll understand why Hilfiger has recruited the
ally rocked,” she says later. Her makeup was 100
Corrs to test-drive his new line of cosmetics, percent Hilfiger, so how could she not?
E
294
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
