close
ou are about to read something deeply contro-
versial. Dogma, the new biblical comedy from
director Kevin Smith, features such heretical
abominations as a pair of profaning prophets,
an abortion-clinic attendant turned virgin moth-
er, Matt Damon and Ben Affleck as murderous
angels and Alanis Morissette as God. Apparently, some people
find this offensive. But the defenders of decency will soon dis-
cover the real controversy behind Dogma. It’s the first film to
show Chris Rock’s naked behind. In broad daylight.
“You know what, though?” says Rock, in what may or may not
be an apology. “I have a very nice ass. I was pretty surprised.” 
 It’s a brutally humid New York afternoon, just weeks after
Rock's third HBO comedy special, Chris Rock: Bigger & Blacker,
helped confirm why Variety calls him the “most dynamic comedian
working the American concert stage today.” Rock’s taken a break
from his day gig-every morning he produces his own Emmy-
winning talk show and the ABC comedy The Hughleys - to muse
on why he will be mooning a million or so filmgoers. “Would I have
done it in Lethal Weapon 4? No,” Rock tells me while his lunch
gets cold. “But Dogma’s an art movie. Harvey Keitel’s totally nude
in art movies. He's not taking if off for Sister Act 2.” Rock adjusts a 
sleeve on his oversized Phat Farm denim shirt and shovels a fork-
ful of hazelnut-crusted cod; his impish eyes move as he chews.
"Besides, I got to wear a little jock strap, so you can't see any-
thing." Unlike many stars asked to reveal their assets-the moon-
ing occurs right at the beginning of Dogma, when Rock's charac-
ter Rufus (the lesser-known 13th apostle sent back to earth to
prove that Jesus was a black man) plummets onto an interstate-
Rock did not pump up for the role, there were no private sessions
 BANAN
with a personal trainer. "Nope. Don't exercise much," he admits.
“It’s not really funny. [Jim] Carrey looks like he’s in pretty good
shape, but traditionally, funny guys have never been buff." The dis-
tinctly unbuff (but surprisingly tall) Rock appears to weigh about
105 pounds, but the 34-year-old showbiz vet was heavy >
52
BAZAAR NOVEMBER 1999
 Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
