reya Stark roamed the Middle East in the
first half of this century, discovering lost
fortresses and generally proving herself
the perfect mate for Indiana Jones. In a
comprehensive biography, Passionate
Nomad: The Life of Freya Stark (Random
House), Jane Fletcher Geniesse treks to Damascus,
concentrating on Stark’s exploits rather than the psy-
chology behind them. It's the tale of one woman's
powerful need for knowledge, with harrowing adven-
tures, narrow escapes and brilliant acts of espionage.
Wendy Kaminer's Sleeping With Extra-Terrestrials:
The Rise of Irrationalism and Perils of Piety (Pan-
theon) is a head trip, not a road trip. The book is a
study of the “unadulterated emotionalism” of our time, 
sentimenta
and an argument for rationality over supernaturalism.
America in the ’90s, according to Kaminer, is a “cele-
bration of subjectivity" in 
which 49 percent of the na-
ournevs
tion's population believes
the government is hiding
knowledge of aliens’ visits
to earth. Kaminer's critiques
s month, a slew of new books
 of mystic phenomena, from 
ores a rande of
landscapes. By Maggie Kirn
guardian angels to weeping
statues, make for an enter-
taining read that leads one to question whether the
information age is really all that informed.
Linn Ullmann's debut novel, Before You Sleep (Viking),
follows its heroine, Karin Blom, on an emotional inner
journey, the treacherous path through marriage and
motherhood. Ullmann  is the daughter of actress Liv
pace invaders?
Ullmann and existentialist film director Ingmar Bergman,
and reading her saga of a troubled family in stark and
stoic Oslo, one can’t help but think about her source ma-
terial. The familiar prose and disquietingly intimate story
give the book a cinematic clarity that keeps you reading.
In Waiting (Pantheon), writer Ha Jin transports us
to 1960s China, the home of Lin Kong, a middle-
aged doctor trapped between a lover in the city and 
a wife in the country. There’s nothing worse than a
poorly written love story, and heaven knows the
world is full of them, but when the genre is handled
deftly there’s nothing sweeter. Jin, a poet, chronicles
Lin's life with such well-chosen words and unfussy
sentences that it's his prose we end up falling for. ▪
France (Abrams), another narrative-cum-cook-
It's time to start cooking again-not flipping
burgers or mixing instant lemonade, but cook-
book, includes 40 recipes along with poetic
ing. Thomas Keller's French Laundry Cookbook 
reveries on French cuisine. The recipes feature
(Artisan), from the Napa Valley restaurant of the 
traditional fare, like gigot d'agneau, and some
same name, offers Ph.D .- level recipes with in-
of the director's own creations. Merchant's
gredients such as spotted skate wing and tech-
titles go heavy on the words incredibly and
niques like shirring. Only slightly less challeng-
instant, as in Ismail's Incredibly Instant Chick-
ing is The Making of a Pastry Chef (John Wiley
en. But in spite of the Betty Crocker-ish lan-
& Sons), which isn't a traditional cookbook but
guage, the dishes sound good. Houghton Mif-
the story of a cooking education punctuated
flin's newest addition to the Best American se-
with recipes for complicated masterpieces like
ries, The Best American Recipes 1999 (can The
Pistachio Rosewater Ice Cream Sandwich on
Best American Ab Exercises be far behind?) is
Espresso Pizzelle With Chocolate Sauce. Ismail 
a well-rounded, everyman's cookbook, the per-
Merchant's Paris: Filming and Feasting in
fect place to earn your culinary B.A.
■
172
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
