John F.
Kennedy Jr.
1960-1999
Carolyn Bessette
Lauren Bessette
1964-1999
he untimely deaths of John F. Kennedy Jr.,  terward, she emerged from the couple’s Tribeca loft
Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and Lauren Bes-  wearing a Prada skirt with the new longer hemline. By
sette have left us all deeply shocked and  being one of the first to wear it, “she basically showed
 the entire American population how to wear that length,"
saddened. At Bazaar we know what it is to 
says Bazaar fashion director Tonne Goodman.
lose a beloved boss, and when John 
Bessette Kennedy was often seen publicly clasping her
Kennedy’s staff at George magazine describe
husband’s hand, her head a little bowed, but those who
him as “more than an editor,” it’s a phrase we understand.
knew her emphasize her strength and the emotional sup-
Lauren Bessette's colleagues at Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter, where she was a principal, have a final memory of
port she gave her husband in private. Like her famous
mother-in-law, to whom she is inevitably compared, friends
her friendly concern: that everyone be able to leave the of-
say that beneath the elegant surface, Bessette Kennedy
fice early on Fridays and enjoy the hot summer weekends.
 In Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, the fashion world mourns a
was a woman who knew her own mind and was committed
 to helping her husband pursue success and happiness.
longed-for icon. As a former publicist at Calvin Klein, fashion 
was part of her sensibility. Graced with beauty, stature and 
We will never know Bessette Kennedy as we might have
style, she was a stunning presence. But Bessette Kennedy was   wished to, and her reserve and dignity will be her enduring
public legacy. She never squandered her cachet. Tragical-
an elusive muse, offering us during her rare public appearances
ly, her potential, together with that of her husband and sis-
only glimpses of a style dazzling in its assurance.
She married John F. Kennedy Jr. in a dress by the then
ter, has been squandered by fate.
little-known Narciso Rodriguez; in a photo op shortly af-
Our sympathies go to the Kennedy and Bessette families. ▪
68
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
