our readers
Darling Praise
l just indulged in the August issue, and I absolutely loved every page of it.
I’ve been a subscriber to Bazaar for years, and I always enjoy each and
every issue. The articles, the layouts and the fashion spreads set the
standard for everyone else. Lynn Darling's article "Sweet Chastity" was
impressive and so very important. In an industry that usually plasters its
covers with hints on how to please a man, this piece was a liberating and
 informative change. 
—Jeannette Diane, via the Internet
Tori Glory
Thank you for printing the article on female
Thank you so much for the article on Tori
celibacy. It isn’t a subject that I expected to
Spelling [“Tori Tells,” by Jancee Dunn,
see in your magazine. It was comforting to
August]. Finally, Spelling received the credit
hear the perspectives of other women. It
ISE FROM TOP: WAYNE MASER; PATRICK DEMARCHELIER; CLIFF WAT
she deserves: for taking risks, believing in
was also helpful to read the suggestion
herself and keeping both feet planted firmly on 
that a woman can be celibate by choice
the ground.   — Erika Friedman, via the Internet
with dignity.
Mama Mia
Rolling Rocked
What a wonderful surprise to see your story 
l was absolutely blown away by the
on Jerry Hall [“Mama Said,” by George
fashion spread “Rolling Thunder” shot by
Hodgman, August]. I loved how you mixed
Greg Delves [August]. He's a genius! It
the new and old photographs together. And
was definitely the most original way to
the article was very insightful without being
show boots, shoes and bags that I've
invasive. Great job! —Mona Wakim, Chicago
ever seen! 
l picked up my wife’s August issue of
Bazaar and was so impressed with the
pictures of Jerry Hall that I just had to
write this letter. She looks as beautiful
now as she did 25 years ago-maybe
even better! Thanks. - Alec Regis, Toronto
CLO
OTOGRAPHS,
Send correspondence to: Letters to the Editor, Harper's Bazaar, 1700 Broadway, 37th Floor, New York, NY 10019.
E-mail address: bazaar@hearst.com. Please include your address and daytime phone number.
Letters chosen for publication may be edited for length and clarity. Visit the Bazaar Web site, www.bazaar411.com. 
50
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
