fummy
seeks mr. right
es to dating
men nave trouble get
eople say they love funny women, but the  strung-out prescription-drug addict], he's the one."
truth is, most men just don’t know what to      Finding the one-and why I have not done so yet—is a
do with them. Guys always say to me, “I just  topic that has lately been much discussed in my inner
want a girl with a great sense of humor”—  circle: my grandma, my shrink, my dry cleaner. We all
forgetting, perhaps, that I make a career of   need to find a reason for what ails us, so my reasoning is
being funny. Then I see them a week later  that I’m still growing into myself, and life, in the mean-
with a gorgeous girl who has nothing to say but who  time, is just sparing me very bad relationships. You see, l
laughs uproariously at their jokes. That's when I lean into   once heard that half a person attracts half a person, and
the guy and say, “You really scored with this one. She's  a whole person attracts ... you know. I said to my thera-
friggin’ hilarious.” They never like that.
pist, “Wait, but I know a lot of screwed-up people in
 I love to make people laugh. And I’m quite happy to be 
 great relationships.” And she replied, after a long pause,
considered funny. But I'm not always “on.” I'm not a “True.” Well, there goes that theory.
wacky person. Some people I meet expect me to be fun-
ny on demand. They’ll say, “You’re the cheerleader from   pletely attracted to. We went out, made out, it worked
Saturday Night Live. Can you do a cheer?" And I say 
 out. Then, two days later, he called and invited me to his
lightly, “Not today,” as I continue pushing my cart of tam-  party, and I said, "Sure, but I might be a little late.” (Of
pons, toothpaste and Tide. They usually get a little
course I’ll be late because I’ll be sitting in my car around
ticked: “Oh come on, why not? Just one cheer.” By then 
 the corner trying to be a little late). Anyway, I arrive and, 
most of the supermarket is looking, and I say politely,
oh, look, he's still cute. After a while we sit down and he
“Oh, no, because I’d like to get my groceries and go ....
says, "I think you're really great." Great. And I'm think-
Because I'd like to make this green light .... Because my
ing, Shit, what now!! He keeps talking: "I have a girl-
feet are in stirrups."
friend," he says. "She's in Paris right now doing a show."
The good news is that being funny for a living takes the   I want to say, “Oh, is she a puppeteer? Is she a member
pressure off looking good. If I weren't doing a character   of Cirque du Soleil?" But I don’t want to give him the sat-
 ব
each week, I’d probably be a nut about my looks, like  isfaction of saying, “No, she’s a model.” Well, I feel like
every other actress. But when I’m playing a role like Ross   saying, “You should hope that she’s not having a party of
WAT
Perot or [foulmouthed housewife] Rita DelVecchio, I have   her own in Paris," but I don't. Instead I reply, cheerfully,
no vanity at all. My sister says to me, “Cheri, if a guy 
“Hey, well, at least I know. Thanks for being honest!” and
asks you out after seeing you do Colette Reardon [the then quickly make my way over to a friend and ask ➤104
100
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
