MARC JACOBS REFERS TO HIM AS GOD . TOM FORD AND JEAN PAUL GAULTIER CALL HIM
Ther mentor. His influential House is merging with Gucci. Sarah Mower
ASKS, WHY SHOULDN'T YVES SAINT LAURENT BE HAPPY? FASHON EDITOR: BRANA WOLF.
PHOTOGRAPHED BY INEZ VAN LAMSWEERDE AND VINOODH MATADIN
“It’s absolutely crazy downstairs! The couture salon is full
of ladies who are spending a fortune!” Two days after his
fall couture show in Paris, Yves Saint Laurent is sitting at
his desk in his secluded, deep crimson-and-gold
baroque office on Avenue Marceau, looking slimmer,
healthier and happier than he has in a decade. He's smil-
ing a surprising, direct blue-eyed smile that almost 
makes him look like a young man again-a look of pure
delight that shatters the morose, intimidating public im-
age that has hung heavily on him for so many years.
“I’m no longer as anxious as I used to be when I de-
signed the collection,” he says. “It’s as if I’ve reached a
turning point in my career, as if I’ve grown up at last.”
Could it be that the couturier who was, famously, “born 
with a nervous breakdown” has gotten over it at last?
After 37 years of epic personal struggle at the helm of
his profoundly influential couture house, Yves Saint
Laurent looks like a man coming up for air. What liber-
ated him? “It’s a victory over myself,” he says. “I’ve
changed a lot recently. I realized that I no longer want-
ed to live a lonely, stressful life of creation."
Something, quite something, has been happening with
Saint Laurent in the past six months. One week short of
his 63rd birthday, on August 1, all eyes in the fashion
world are on him. With the rich heritage he created with
his partner, Pierre Bergé, at the epicenter of the most
seismic business events of the year, YSL—the brand—is
suddenly recharged with a sense of relevance and possi-
bility that usually only comes to a designer in midcareer.
As the final details of a major coup engineered by Bergé
and one of France's wealthiest, and sharpest, business-
men, François Pinault, are being tied up, YSL-its cou-
ture house, ready-to-wear and beauty divisions-is
revving up to become part of a new juggernaut of a >
172
 Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
