meatpack
 After college, Kalinsky took 
ntil now, the only
pretty thing about his knowledge north to Barneys
NYC's meatpack- New York where he worked his
ing district was way up to shoe buyer. Eventu-
its quaint cobble- ally he headed to Atlanta and
stone streets.  opened a Bob Ellis shoe store
But now Jeffrey Kalinsky has
 there, followed by a Jil Sander
added a wallop of glamour to the 
 boutique and his first Jeffrey 
neighborhood by opening his
 boutique. He was among the 
eponymous boutique. Located on
 first retailers south of the Ma-
the 12,000-square-foot ground 
 son-Dixon line to sell Ann De-
floor of the old Nabisco building, 
 meulemeester, Dries Van Noten 
Jeffrey promises to lure fashion
and Helmut Lang.
groupies who crave Jil Sander,
 Besides clothing and shoes,
Balenciaga, Gucci, Fendi, Manolo the new Jeffrey has accessories,
Blahnik and more.
home products, a snack bar (“you 
At his Manhattan emporium, can actually have a sandwich
Kalinsky is boldly going where 
 while you try on shoes," says 
few retailers have gone before:  Kalinsky), and if Kalinsky gets to
He's putting men's and women's complete his dream, the empori-
clothes together on one floor.  um will expand to include a day
Even his own clothing line, Kalin-
spa, hair salon and a jewelry
sky Rubenstein, which he de-
vault, where a well-known, Holly-
signs with David Rubenstein, is
 wood-loved jeweler will be able to 
based on a coed theme. His rea-
 fit you with some sparklers. 
son? Some women look better in
Just don't expect lots of trendy
men's clothes, he says, and vice  clothes. "I don't believe in one
versa. Which means Kalinsky
 thing this season, then another 
Rubenstein's hand-rolled cotton  the next," says Kalinsky. "You
shirts, Capri pants, cashmere also can't always be worried
sweaters and even alligator about selling merchandise. You
slides (designed by Manolo Blah-
have to take risks, and I’m not
nik) are meant to look as good
afraid of failing." But don't com-
on you as, say, your brother. 
pare Jeffrey to Barneys. Kalinsky
Jeffrey should be a huge suc- rolls his eyes at the very mention
cess, because Kalinsky knows re- of it. "Everybody is comparing me
tail. He was born into it. His parents 
to Barneys. Jeffrey is not Berg-
own the Bob Ellis shoe store in his
 dorf's or Colette in Paris or Bar-
hometown of Charleston, SC, and
neys. I just want to bring a little
it was one of the first places in the
Southern charm to 14th Street."
country to carry Prada.
Ya’ll ready?
236
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
