they saw how much money I was
making. Then they shut up." Quock's
mother has been taking her to
Chinatown for facials ever since she
was 15. “My mom’s a Shiseido junkie,”
she says. “She freaks when I tan, so
l use SPF 48." To hear the models talk, 
the daily makeovers that come with
the job don’t exactly rock their world.
“Getting your hair and makeup done is
a treat once in a while, but not all the
time,” says Christina The, a Toronto 
native with Indonesian parents.
Gisele Bundchen, 19, who comes
from a village in the south of Brazil, 
considers her homeland “the best
place to live.” Before she started 
modeling in 1996, she claims, "I didn't 
read magazines, so I didn’t know what 
a model was.” (Hmmm.) It wasn’t until
she came to New York in 1997 that
she experienced getting her hair blown 
out for the first time. “It was weird 
because my hair was longer after the 
blow-out and I felt like Rapunzel."
Born and raised in Kenya, Agola 
Kataka, 19, studied engineering at 
Howard University in Washington, D.C.,
before coming to New York five months
ago to pursue modeling. “Kenyan
beauty has to do with character and 
personality,” says the Zen-like Agola. “At
home, I keep my hair covered. When I 
came to New York and went on go-
sees, I kept hearing, ‘Can we see your
hair?’ I thought, You people really like
hair.” Upon the advice of her agency, 
she had her Afro straightened. "It's
different,” she says with a sigh. “Even if 
l miss my old hair, I’m liking it.”
Some of the models create support
networks for each other. At fashion
shows or shoots, you can’t help but 
notice their rapport. Nigerian-born
Oluchi Onweagba, 18, who arrived
in New York in February and hasn’t 
stopped working since, says, "It's
hard to be away from your family."
One difficulty for models from less
prosperous parts of the world is 
dealing with financial success. Agents
say that it's tough to convince some of 
them to turn down easy money for less 
prestigious jobs that might taint their
growing portfolios. “It’s hard for girls to
say no to more money than their father
would make in a year,” says Kennedy, “in 
order to hold out for triple the amount."
Seventeen-year-old New Yorker
Devon Aoki’s edgy child-woman look 
can be traced to three heritages:
Japanese grandparents on her father's
side, German and English on her
mother’s. “I have freckles. I’m not tall.
I'm not perfect," says the 5-feet-6-
inches-tall model. "There's a change
in fashion in terms of the different types
of people who are being acknowledged.
Wojcik, 19, spends her downtime at sea and plans to sail around.
It's cool that it's happening now,
rotection from the elements: Lash Luxe Conditioning Mascara in Black, Bare
as we step into the future."
port Makeup SPF 10 and SunBlock for Body SPF 15. All, Estee Lauder.
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
