t the collections, I have to confess, initially I was a lit-
tle anxious. As the girls came out on the catwalk at
Dior, Gaultier and other shows, I found myself bob-
bing and weaving, practically knocking over my
chair as I tried to see the footwear. Some of it was so covered 
up by the new trend-huge-cut pants with hemlines dusting
the runway-it would have been easier to see the models’
panties than their boots (but I don’t cover lingerie). It was only
when I went to the designers’ showrooms that I realized that 
he biggest accessory at the recent
this is the best boot season ever. I’m talking ankle, midcalf, to
De Beers diamond dinner at
the knee, over the knee, sexy, smart, classic, retro. 
London's Syon House was a
The big boot news from the shows was decoration: boots
bodyguard. And I mean big, hon-
encrusted with semiprecious stones from Gucci, embroidery
ey. Catherine Zeta-Jones had one, Prince
and sequins at Ungaro, appliquéd leaves and flowers at Pra-
had some, the prince had his and so did
da and black jet beading at Narciso Rodriguez. Heating
Donatella. Guards come with fame or
things up were over-the-knee boots shown with short skirts.
jewelry on loan. One of the few notables
Even sexier were stiletto boots worn with really tight pants
without one was Trudie Styler, who was
stretched over the heels. What a great season for choices!
wearing an exquisite antique diamond neck-
lace, given as a gift from ... well, I’m sure
you know. How chic is that-to actually own your diamonds?
Gwyneth Paltrow set a good example when she bought her own 
bracelet for the Oscars, and her father later bought her the necklace.
An intriguing accessory at De Beers was the Versace cushion that
Prince Charles' personal cushion carrier followed him around
with. Hmmm, I could use one of those around the office. And I’d
sure like to know what salary he makes. Is it that royalty can’t sit
on rented chairs, or does the prince have... Well, never mind.
ock chicks have been popping up just about 
every season lately-Janis Joplin, Patti Smith,
Stevie Nicks and Cher. Now it seems we’re on
to punk à la Blondie, with skintight leathers
(Olivier Theyskens), patent-leather stiletto boots (Loewe),
stud jewelery (Tommy Hilfiger), zippers and leather gloves
(everywhere). Chanel even wrapped the girls in chains.
Dolce & Gabbana did belts and bags, mixing strong
leather with soft, furry Mongolian lamb. You didn’t know
whether to whip them or pet them. “S&M” isn’t a term that
l usually toss around at Bazaar, dear, but if the boot fits ...
Don’t you just love the new “everything goes together”
trend? There really doesn’t seem to be a definition for
what's happening now. The New Hippie (why, because
Chanel
they wear anything?), Rich Gypsy (right, how many gyp-
sies do you know with a trust fund?), Bohemian (since
when did they care about fashion?)—whatever you call it,
it works. It's exciting to look at too. And to think there was
a day when your bag had to match your shoes. 
 ■
Tommy
76
Hilfiger
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
