

 This month, when you watch Michelle Pfeiffer brighten the screen
in The Story of Us, her 29th film in 19 years (and the first in which
she kisses Bruce Willis), consider the following: The world's fourth
highest-grossing actress once belonged to a vegetarian cult. 
“Actually,” she says, “it was a couple who worked out of their
home. But some brainwashing did go on." Pfeiffer doesn’t feel
particularly comfortable discussing the veggie cult. But it marks
the end of an era, and the story must be told. “My first husband
[Peter Horton, best known as Gary from Thirtysomething] was
making a movie on the Moonies," she continues, wringing her
hands between her knees. “We met some deprogrammers, and l
realized they were talking about me.” (She won’t get into the gory
details.) Since Pfeiffer's early life had already included such
canonical Southern California activities as totaling her car, failing
as a supermarket checkout girl, winning the 1978 Miss Orange
E WANIS
County beauty contest and parlaying the crown into an under-
MOMMY AND MRS
wear-challenged role on the TV show Delta House (her character
was called Bombshell), a cult didn't seemed entirely odd. In fact,
it may have been a blessing. “It was probably a good thing,” she
admits. “At the time, I could have been doing a lot worse.”
Michelle Pfeiffer is 41. Age is presented for two important
reasons. 1) The press keeps insisting she's 42. “I’m 41!” she
says with mock horror. “Wanna see my driver’s license?”
2) She seems ageless. To paraphrase Mel Gibson in Tequila
Sunrise, just looking at Michelle Pfeiffer hurts. Cocooned in-
side a movie-star-size suite at Shutters On the Beach, a
plush seaside inn some 30 miles from the lesser circum-
stances of her Midway City hometown, she is wearing a
sleeveless white shirt and lived-in khakis. Her hair is pony-
tailed in girl-next-door anonymity; her skin is perfect. “I don’t
obsess," she says, swearing off expensive potions and emol-
lients. If there’s anything odd about her, it’s the impression
that her very blue eyes are unusually far apart. Otherwise, it’s
all good. “Thirty-nine was really much, much rougher,” Pfeiffer
says. "By the time I hit 40, I was so happy. I had my children,
an amazing husband, work that I love. How could I com-
plain?” Still, there are moments. “The other day, I went, ‘It’s
okay ... you're 41.'" She exhales deeply. "It's oh ... kay."
224
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
