fashion 
91
F.Y.I.
Vacation Spot 'Tis the season to head south.
92
Thankfully this resort report makes packing for
your trip a breeze.
The Buy
94
In Her Closet  Kirna Zabete boutique co-owner
96
Beth Shepherd.
104
Luxe Rock On.
Trunkshow Dynamic Duos.
106
On the Verge A very special contribution from
160
the world's best designers-a dress with a mil-
lennial theme, created especially for Bazaar.
Consider them the dresses of the future.
Photographed by Patrick Demarchelier.
172  The Saint For over 40 years, he's been heralded
as the most influential designer of his time, with
legions of loyal followers. But, Sarah Mower
asks, why has it taken so long for Yves Saint
Laurent to be happy? Photographed by Inez
van Lamsweerde and Vinoodh Matadin.
182  Play Time Kick back and relax in the best of the
resort collections. Photographed by Tom Munro.
192  Romancing the Stone Jewelry should speak vol-
umes about your personality, and these lus-
cious pieces will certainly leave no questions
unanswered. Be dazzling! Photographed by
Jenny van Sommers.
212  Fur Sure This winter, long fur coats are plusher
and fuller and more sensual than ever. Wrap
yourself up in the lap of luxury. Photographed
by Patrick Demarchelier.
SEE BUYLINE FOR DETAILS AND STOR
beauty & health
117 First Look
120 Message Scent Can your personality be cap-
tured in a perfume? Scent therapist Sarah
Horowitz creates custom blends to suit every
psyche. By Jennifer Tung.
126 Peak Pampering Take a break from skiing this
winter and head to the mountains for the ulti-
mate R&R. Valerie Latona takes a whirlwind
tour of the season's hottest high-altitude spas.
130 Wellness Report The latest news in women's health.
HELIER
136  Weak in the Knees It's no myth that women are
more prone to knee problems than men.
Aimee Lee Ball reports on the latest research.
TRICK DEMAR
204  Saving Face Why put up with a wrinkle if you can
erase it with a relatively painless injection? Dana
Wood looks at the current crop of skin-smoothing
shots. Photographed by Elliott Erwit.
BAZAAR NOVEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
