The G7 designers. Left: Daven Joy of USDA, Harry of 
Once, John Randolf of USDA and Marre Moerel (seated) 
of Once. Scissor table, Schaal chair and Soft Box Series
lamps, Once. Center: Comma's David Khouri on his
Thor chair, Chris Bundy (standing) and Ross Menuez of
Prototype & Production, Comma's Roberto Guzman on his 
6-Pack ottoman. Laquered Milk table, porcelain clocks, 
Fia bag and nylon screen, Prototype & Production. Right: 
Michael Solis of Worx Studio, Nick Dine (standing) of
Dinersan, Inc., Christopher C. Deam (foreground) of USDA 
with his side table, and Pierre Bouguennec of Boum Design 
on his blowup lounge chair beside his Plug-In wall light. 
ls? We'll see as G7
ad. By Melissa Barrett
hen you see a crowd of
models, rock stars, indie
filmmakers, fashion editors
and museum curators
packed into one room
grooving to the pulse of Puff
Daddy, it’s hard to believe you’re at the opening of a
furniture (yes, a furniture) exhibit. But the G7 show,
which ran in an alternative SoHo gallery during this
year’s International Contemporary Furniture Fair, creat-
ed a buzz outside normal design circles. The inventive
pieces on display, from scuba neoprene sofas to
suction-cup rugs to industrial nylon-tubing screens,
proved that a new wave of progressive American
design talent can rival that of Europe.
G7 is a loose collective of seven young U.S.-based 
architecture and industrial design groups, which
collaborated so as to create a greater impact: “We
wanted to position our work in a different way from the
sea of booths at the main fair,” says G7’s Marre Moer-
el. “Plus, we all identify with one another’s work.” From 
September 23 to 26, Totem Design, a New York and
newly opened L.A. design store that was a sponsor of 
the show, is taking G7 to London to exhibit concur-
rently with the 100% Design furniture fair. “There’s a
new energy, a new confidence and a new creativity
that’s really exciting in this younger generation of
American designers," says R. Craig Miller, curator of
architecture, design and graphics at the Denver Art
Museum, "and we haven't seen that in a long time." ■
402
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
