Restylane. Word is that it has amazing plumping properties
with little to no potential for allergy. "Hyaluronic acid is the nat-
ural suspending substance of the skin," explains Grossman.
“It, along with collagen, is the scaffolding or framework that
cells live in.” Brandt adds: “If you think of a bowl of Jell-O with
blueberries [our cells] in it, hyaluronic acid is the Jell-O." Its ar-
rival in the U.S .- once it's out from under FDA scrutiny-is ea-
gerly anticipated by dermatologists and plastic surgeons. "I’m
hoping it will be approved by the end of the year," admits
Brandt. “The more injectables we have available, the more we
can tailor them to patients’ needs.” Jaliman, who studied the
filler through an affiliation with a European plastic surgeon, is
equally pumped up about its pending arrival. "It's exceptional,"
she says, “so I’m looking forward to being able to use it here. I
wish I could get it now.” It does, however, have some possible
side effects: bumps and “bubbles” under the skin. “It’s good
for deep lines, like nasal-labial folds, but not for fine lines," ex-
plains Grossman. How long it lasts: four to six months.
lsologen: Another member of the filler club, Isologen is the by-
product of a patient's own skin culture. After a tiny "punch
graft” of tissue is excised-usually from a discreet nip behind
the ear-it's packed off for processing and made available
again to its donor in roughly eight weeks. It's not the best bet,
then, for youth-seekers in a hurry. But time factors aside, Isolo-
gen wins high marks for its potential to restore collagen-rich fi-
broblasts-the building blocks of collagen-to the skin. And
Kane, for one, is thrilled. “Now we can culture cells outside the
body,” he enthuses, eyes widening. “And we can also take fi-
broblasts and put them into patients’ lines. The fibroblasts will
be concentrated and really build up the area." Promising? Ab-
solutely. But there are nonetheless a few drawbacks to Isolo-
gen: the frequency with which it needs to be injected (several
times over a three- to six-month period, according to Kane)
and the time lapse between injection and visible results. “It
takes about four months,” explains Brandt, “and that’s not 
practical. People want instant gratification. If they come in with
a line, they don’t want to wait four months for it to be filled.” 
SoftForm: Like AlloDerm, SoftForm is another permanent in-
jectable implant considered a more pliant alternative to Gore-
Tex, a version of the favorite outerwear fabric that was inject-
ed into the skin in the early '90s. As injectable implants go, it 
has a solid reputation for shoring up deep facial grooves. But 
where SoftForm falls down on the job is in the arena of fine
lines. For starters, SoftForm's format (it comes in strips)
doesn't always lend itself to the task at hand. "Don't forget
that these strips are linear," says Brandt, "and lines often
SHON SWEELING WITH IC
aren't. They go off in different directions." Another concern,
says Brandt, is the telltale tiny stitch marks left at the inci-
sion-implantation site. “I’m not saying these marks will be
perceptible to the entire world,” he says, “but if you look
closely in the mirror, you’ll see them.” Jaliman has a beef or
two of her own with SoftForm. “If it’s not placed exactly right,
you end up with a line and a bump,” she says. “The other
problem is that it can shift a little around the mouth so that
you get this strange contour. You have to be careful with it."
Zyderm: Introduced 18 years ago, Zyderm, an implant con-
sisting mainly of bovine collagen, is the granddaddy of the
injectable world. Prior to the advent of Botox and lasers, it
had a brief tenure as a filler for fine lines around the eyes.
“That was the thing to do-a little Zyderm,” says Kane. “It’s
not really that thick, so it's appropriate for very fine lines. It
works okay, but the main problem is that the company that
makes it recommends that it be repeated every three to six
months. A patient who just wants to look good shouldn't
have to be reinjected that often."
E
Resources
For more information, contact the American Academy of Dermatology,
888-462-3376, www.aad.org; the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic 
Surgery, 888-asaps11, www.surgery.org; or American Society for
Dermatologic Surgery, 800-441-2737, www.asds-net.org.
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
