Back on track:
Sprinter Marion
Jones training at
the track at North
Carolina State
University.
Clothing, Nike.
on Jones is burning up the track in her quest for f
ic Games. Nick Paumgarten meets the next great sports su
But she won’t race or train in them. “All my life I saw these
hey come from everywhere to watch her
women wearing briefs, and always they gotta pull ’em out of
train-photographers, writers, TV crews.
their butt,” she says with a laugh. “What’s the point? Anyway, if
They go past the sign that reads, BEWARE
briefs are so great, why aren’t the men wearing them?”
THROWN, FLYING AND TOSSED OBJECTS, and
 That's Marion Jones: down-to-earth, pragmatic, direct. She's 
start asking around: “Do you know
where I can find Marion Jones?” Some-
not in this game to show off. She's in it to win, and fashion
 statements (not to mention wedgies) aren’t part of her plan. 
one points her out, and the visitors step 
Earlier she had arrived at the track in baggy light-blue Uni-
onto the track in the stifling heat of a
 versity of North Carolina Lady Tar Heels shorts and a loose-
summer noon at North Carolina State University to watch
fitting Nike T-shirt. They’d made her look lanky and tall, a
the fastest woman in the world work to go even faster. 
And then they ask her to change into butt-hugging run-  rangy tomboy with shy sweet eyes—no makeup, short fin-
ning briefs, so that they can capture on film the stunning   gernails, three gold studs in her right ear, one in her left and
 a gold chain around her neck. She wore her engagement 
muscularity of the million-dollar thighs that have propelled 
ring looped around the lace of her left shoe. She had spent
Jones, at age 23, to the pinnacle of the track-and-field 
world. And she obliges them, aware that she's the sport’s 
 the morning lifting weights and planned to spend the after-
hot young superstar and must sell both her sport and her-   noon relaxing with her husband, shot-putter C.J. Hunter.
Then Jones changed into her sprinting togs, and the >
self to the world. If that means wearing briefs, so be it.
366
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
