“The modeling world used to be a Barbie
aerobics on television like everyone else.”
and Ken factory,” says Neal Hamil, executive
Welcome to the changing face of modeling.
vice president of Ford Models. “Today, that
It's Tales of the City, the model version, a
 mold has been broken." Accept the models 
saga of foreign beauties propelled through a
we’ve assembled here as living proof. Their
whirlwind of photographers and hairdressers.
ethnic heritages (Asian, African, South
Because they’re from different corners of the
American, Eastern European) have played
world, each has a distinct look and her own 
a part in the trajectory of their careers.
beauty secrets. Cherech Allam, a fierce 24-year-
We can thank the Internet and satellite
old from Nigeria, says, "My mom is in her 40s,
television for hot-wiring the concept of world 
and people mistake us for sisters. Her secret 
beauty for the new millennium. “It’s easier for
is olive oil on the skin; and Vaseline really
girls all over the world to communicate with 
rocks." Londoner Zoya Todrovic, 21, whose 
their peers and clients," says Conor Kennedy,
parents are Yugoslavian, was told early on by
a modeling agent at Company Management. 
her grandmother, "Never pluck your eyebrows."
“People ask me all the time about dogsleds and
Audrey Quock, a nonchalant 24-year-old
fur hats," says Marleen Berkova, a chiseled 18-
Asian-American, stands before the catering
year-old from Moscow who speaks fluent English
spread at a downtown photo shoot, nibbling on 
(although she can be found during a break from 
a single cashew. "I'm more American than most
Americans,” she says, “yet a big part of me is
a photo session reading a Jack London book 
very traditional, like my parents.” Initially they
in Russian translation). “Maybe you’ll find a 
stereotypical Russian in Siberia, but we’ve got
wanted her to be a doctor or a lawyer, “until
azilian Gisele Bundchen, 19, is the model of the moment. Long and lean with curves in all
the right places, her sultry South American look has revolutionized the industry. Soft sheen:
Healthy Skin Cream Powder Makeup and Body Oil Light Sesame Formula. Both, Neutrogena.
229
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
