CHRISTIAN
MICHAEL KORS
LACROIX
eatures
 Up Close Rock Steady Successful funnyman Chris Rock   178  Truth and Consequences She's flaunted her tattoos, her bi-
52
broadens his horizon this month as Jesus’ 13th apostle
sexuality and her knives, but what screen siren Angelina
in Kevin Smith’s much talked-about new film, Dogma.
Jolie hasn’t shown off is her natural, silly self. So, who is she
Julian English sits down with the star and finds out why
really? asks Deanna Kizis. Photographed by Wayne Maser.
he's not afraid to let it all hang out.
Into the Woods Since its inception, Emily Woods has
198
62  First Person Grooming By Grandma. Music writer Jancee
been the woman behind the scenes at J. Crew. Now the
Dunn shares her grandmother's love of vintage clothes
camera-shy chairman steps into the limelight with an ex-
and double scotches—but, as she tells us, her grandma
panding public profile and a beautiful new loft. By James
BUYLINE FOR DET
still doesn’t like Marilyn Manson.
Servin. Photographed by Fernando Bengoechea.
141
Etc. Chloë Sevigny gives a groundbreaking performance 
 208
America's Most Wanted? Faye Yager was the savior of
in Boys Don’t Cry, the true, tragic story of a transgen-
battered women and children, spiriting them to safety
dered Midwestern teen. By Sara Switzer.
and a new life. Now she runs a bed and breakfast.
146
Movies Being Spike Jonze. Hot video director Spike Jonze
Sabrina Rubin Erdely finds out what happened to the
has gone Hollywood, directing his first feature film, Being
former renegade. Photographed by Miles Ladin.
John Malkovich, the hippest indie this side of Sundance.
By Mark Healy. Plus: Movie Notes.
150  Media Quick Takes. By Adriana Leshko and Anne E.
44 Letters
PATRICK DEMARC
Musumeci.
46 Contributors
152  Books Sister Act. Liz Welch checks in with authors Eliza
60   Hit List
and Susan Minot at their summer home in Maine and
81 People
finds out why the term “sibling rivalry” is not part of
222 Buyline
their extensive vocabulary. Plus: Book Notes.
224 Horoscopes
24
BAZAAR NOVEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
