Your Place or MyHotel
lf you’re a feng shui freak who
 can’t leave home without a daily 
 dose of chi, the energy flow 
balanced by the ancient Chinese
Floor Show
art of furniture placement, there’s
A new line of wool rugs designed by
a new hotel just for you. London's
an impressive group of architects, including
MyHotel Bloomsbury, a 76-room 
Steven Holl, Tod Williams, Billie Tsien
boutique hotel by Sir Terence
and Greg Lynn, is available from Elson &
Conran's design team, has serene
Company, who commissioned the group
to create modern patterns inspired by
interiors (arranged in accordance
Tibetan culture. Call 415-441-6604 for
with feng shui principles), in-room 
stores, or see the rugs at "Tibetan Modern: 
spa treatments, a library with a juice 
The Architects Collection," an exhibit
bar and MyChi, a restaurant with 
running October 7 to 30 at Tibet House New
an ultrahealthy, cross-cultural menu
York Gallery, or November 19 to December
31 at LIMN Gallery San Francisco.
that promises to “unify the body, 
mind and soul." Heather Graham and
Michael Stipe have already checked 
in, and it's been lan Schrager's
choice when staying in town to
oversee construction of his own
upcoming London hotels. Call 011-
44-171-667-6000 for reservations.
By Melissa Barrett Rhodes
More Moss
Moss, NYC's hip design store known
for its museum-quality collection of modern
objects for the home, has just expanded,
with 5000 square feet of furniture from cool 
product designers such as Droog, Massimo
 Morozzi and Marc Newson (see story on 
Newson, Design's New Darling, page 246).
Designed by Harry Allen, the slick new 
space will have dioramas inspired by 
aquariums and the Museum of Natural 
History. And rumor has it that in the near
future, there'll be a Moss springing up in
more cities across the U.S. We can't wait.
Call 212-226-2190 for information.
Oriont Express
Interior designer Christopher Ciccone-a.k.a. Madonna's
brother-has designed Oriont, a new 1930s-Shanghai-
inspired restaurant and cabaret on Manhattan's up-and-
coming West 14th Street for a former owner of nearby
Restaurant 147. A design groupie's choice takeout:
Ciccone's plush velvet sofas, sculptural chairs and tables
will be available to order this month through Bernhardt 
Contract. Call 212-888-3232 for information and stores.
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
