Family Shabbat
Discussing the Hervé
Léger couture line
Azria’s cell phone rings. “The phone is constantly
11:00 д.м. At a fitting, Azria eyes a silky orange
with him," explains his lithe, pretty Ukrainian wife,
slipdress trimmed with pink lace. He rubs the
Lubov, BCBG Max Azria's design director. “Some-
garment against his cheek. “I like it when the fab-
times he’s driving and talking on two phones at the
ric feels soft and light, like a caress."
same time. That's when I'm stressing."
Azria likes Japanese food and sad movies, not
In a moment recalling Bette Midler in Down
 necessarily at the same time. “I cry easily,” he 
and Out in Beverly Hills, Azria examines his man-
 says. The last film that had this effect on him, he
icured nails as he drives. Sunlight bounces off
 reports, was Stepmom.
the clear polish. "We take the kids with us to
A love letter (from one of many he keeps in a
Contempo Nails of Robertson," Lubov explains.
 portfolio in his office): 
“Max doesn’t really like getting manicures, but he
 Thank you so much for all you’ve done! It
loves the massage that goes along with it.” 
means so much and feels so good to wear really
10:00 A.M. Azria is meeting with two executives
beautiful clothes. [heart] Jennifer Love Hewitt
who work with him on the Hervé Léger couture
 3:30 ₽.м. Azria confers with a fabric salesman 
line. In September 1998, with his acquisition of
and tries to bargain the price on a leopard print
the house of Léger, Azria became a champ at 
down a few dollars. “I don’t think so,” the
fashion-world Monopoly, buying up Boardwalk
salesman says. When Azria leaves the room for
and Park Place after accumulating a handful of
a minute, the salesman explains: “The price is
utilities. Moving game pieces around even more,
in deutsche marks. Perhaps on Monday the
he fired Léger and replaced him with two younger
dollar will be stronger, and we’ll use that con-
designers, Eric Sartori from Azzedine Alaïa (for the
version. I’d hate to insult Max.”
ready-to-wear collection) and Jerome Dreyfuss
 8:30 ₽.м. Back home in 90210. Azria’s family,
(for Léger's debut couture collection). “Tell me
friends and a few employees celebrate Shabbat.
what your plan of attack is for Hervé Léger,” Azria
At a table set for 20, Azria chucks challah bread at
says to his colleagues in French. “I want to be in-
each plate and then leads the room in prayer. “You
formed of everything that’s happening. If you keep
need to be a little crazy to have a good life,” Azria
me informed, everything will be simple."
admits. “What’s the line from Zorba the Greek?
Percent Azria speaks in French in a day: 30.
‘You will be crazy if you don’t act a little crazy.’”
 10:45 А.м. "Give me one cigarette," he says 
10:30 Р.м. Azria sits on the sofa with his arms
to his assistant, who, knowing that her boss
outstretched and eyes closed. Wife by his side, his
has quit earlier that day, protests. “I know, l
son massaging his shoulders, he looks like a
know," he says, gratefully puffing on a Marlboro
Cheshire cat. "Happy at last," his son says. "The
Light. “I went to a hypnotist this morning, but it
fashion guru sleeps." That's when Max Azria deliv-
is not working. It is bullshit.”
ers his final quote of the day: a gentle snore. 
e a
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
