$3000." It’s no wonder that when clothes are marked down 
at the end of the season, large numbers of groovy, platinum-
card-less young men and women flock to the store. “It’s the
only time I can afford the clothes,” Duffy jokes.
Vuitton’s cash infusion into the Jacobs line is likely to produce
more than just breezier offices and more desks. A secondary,
less expensive Marc Jacobs line is in the works to be ready per-
haps as early as next year. A Marc Jacobs bag collection also
seems to be underway. But in typical Jacobs-Duffy anticorpo-
rate style, they are vague about things like dates, names and
timing. “If we say it’s happening, then it has to happen,” Jacobs 
complains. Responsibility has never been his strong suit. “I like
being very irresponsible. I don’t want to pay Bell Atlantic.”
It is this very anti-attitude-antiestablishment, anti-
marketing, antislick, antimaterialistic, antiadult—that has
become Marc Jacobs’ very own accidental, yet innovative
image. In Hollywood, he’d be the original indie; in music, the
underground’s underground; in fiction, Holden Caulfield.
“What I strive for is never to be a hypocrite,” Jacobs
says. “I am very direct. I don’t say I like someone or some-
thing if I don’t.” It has been said of Jacobs that only five
people really matter to him; if those five people like his
show, he’s content. Indeed, Jacobs seems to be truly a
purist - some would say, artist. “People can’t deal with real-
ity unless it’s coated with Vaseline,” he says. His definition
of success? Having another day to go to work.
Success for Jacobs is clearly much bigger than that. If
you accept that Jacobs and Tom Ford of Gucci are the two
most influential American designers of the next generation,
how do you distinguish their abilities? They both possess
the distinctly American ability to build and sell a brand, a
characteristic that often meets with disdain from the Euro-
pean fashion establishment. But where Ford is telegenic and
charismatic, Jacobs is withdrawn and, some would say,
cliquey. Where Ford is at ease both in boardrooms and de-
sign studios, Jacobs is happiest drawing at his sketch pad
in the middle of the night and at fittings for his collections.
“When Marc does his fittings, they are incredible,” says Vene-
tia Scott. “I have never ever worked with anyone like him. I stand
there thinking, How can they do that? Take an eighth of an inch
off there? I think, How can that ever get done? And it does.”
“Marc is really on the clothes,” explains Camille Miceli. “Other
designers sit behind a desk and say what they want. [Prior to
working at Vuitton] I wouldn’t have thought someone as young
as Marc would be as precise on the cut."
These days Jacobs is so enamored with Paris that he has little
nostalgia for New York City and no contact with relatives there (a
close-knit group of friends, in fact, serves as family).
Now that Jacobs has moved into the Paris phase of his life
he has left a bit of a void in New York, Downtown isn’t the
same. Friends miss him horribly. “One week before our
shows, we’d be going through the same things and be unfit
to be with anyone,” Anna Sui recalls. “And Marc would call 
and say, 'Can I come over and watch TV?' I miss that."
“Don’t worry,” assures Duffy, who knows Jacobs as well as any-
a ma
one. “He’ll get over Paris and he’ll be back.” We hope so. 
463
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
