
Juva Skin & Laser Center, NYC, 212-688-5882. Dr. Bruce
E. Katz is known for his expertise with high-powered lasers, but
now his new seven-treatment-room spa only adds to his der-
matological repertoire. You can schedule everything from colla-
gen injections and mole removal to facials and body scrubs. 
DestinationsHealth, New Haven, CT, 203-782-3750. Yale
University’s Dr. Florence Comite is taking her women’s health
know-how into spas with her DestinationsHealth programs,
where patients can have blood tests, physical exams and nu-
tritional consultations in addition to facials, massages and
body scrubs. The first program started this summer at the
Noëlle Spa for Beauty and Wellness in Stamford, CT, 203-
322-3445; the next is scheduled to open this month at the
Ojai Valley Inn & Spa in Ojai, CA, 800-422-6524.
Aspen Wellness Center, Aspen, CO, 800-689-4369, in the
heart of ski-and-be-seen country, offers facials, body scrubs
and massage therapy; appointments with nutritionists, Chi-
nese medicine practitioners and psychotherapists; yoga and
Pilates classes; and elixirs at its après-ski tea bar.
alk into the lobby of Dr. Laurie J.
 The Tiffani Kim Institute, Chicago, 312-943-8777, in a
Polis' SoHo health center and you
four-story loft minutes from Lincoln Park, has a spa with more
know you're a long way from your 
 than 60 therapies, a full-service hair salon and a wellness facili-
average drab doctor's office with
ty with services that include addictions therapy, sleep disorders
piped-in elevator music. Sounds
counseling, gynecological exams and cosmetic surgery.
from a waterfall fill the three-story
You won’t get a mammogram or Pap at Naturopathica in
loft space and an elixir bar-where you can get everything 
 East Hampton, NY, 516-329-2525, but you can book a con-
from echinacea shots to green tea-stretches the length of
sultation with a naturopathic doctor and schedule your choice
the entryway. The brand-new SoHo Integrative Health Cen-
 of herbal spa therapies. Its new yoga studio and elixir bar (try 
ter, opening this month, is the brainchild of Polis, a derma-
the clearing Skin Tonic) rounds out the health-beauty equation.
tologist who caters to the likes of Madonna, Carolyn Mur-
Murad Spa, El Segundo, CA, 310-726-0470. Dr. Howard
phy and Kate Moss. Polis isn’t shy about saying she’s on to 
 Murad was one of the first skin doctors to offer acupuncture 
something: “Aesthetic health today is linked to medical
and massage as part of his practice. It's no wonder, then,
health,” she says. “We can’t deny it anymore.” Staff in-  that his spa was one of the first true medi-spas around,
cludes an OB-GYN, internist, ophthalmologist, homeopath-
 offering everything from facials to nutritional analysis. 
ic doctor, plastic surgeon and dermatologist - Polis herself.
Canyon Ranch, Tucson, AZ, 800-726-9900. The Life
OTOGRAPHS,
At the spa, you can schedule everything from laser hair re-
Enhancement Center at this well-known spa offers week-
moval, facials and peels to massages, reflexology and aro-
long preventive health sessions that include programs like
matherapy. Call 212-431-1600.
Healthy Heart and Optimal Aging. All include a full medical
Here are other top medi-spas, nationwide.
evaluation as well as fitness and spa privileges.
324
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
