you’re shooting a movie,” he says, “the crew is essential. They
make good money, but they’re normal guys. They don’t even like
art movies. Teamsters don’t know who the fuck Neil LaBute is. I
need the crew. Not only are they normal guys, they’ve seen a lot
of comedy, too. So you can’t really make ’em laugh easy.” Which
brings up the obvious question: What makes Chris Rock laugh?
“The Simpsons: funniest show ever,” he says without hesitation.
soap opera-obsessed midwestern housewife. Between Dog-
“The PJs are really funny—show got a bad rap. A good episode
ma and Nurse Betty, Rock has upgraded to rarefied circles;
of Sex and the City; last night wasn’t great. Albert Brooks.”
not just anyone can go mano à mano with Freeman. “I’m get-
One thing Rock doesn't find funny is college campuses.
ting a little résumé,” he allows, “a little of that ‘Hey, he works 
Though he’s putting together a humor magazine for aspiring
with good people’ thing.” Working with directors who write
comic writers at Howard University, he's got a few concerns
their own scripts has forced Rock to stick to the page and rein
about Gen Y crowds. “Kids are really conservative nowadays.
in his chainsaw mind, which has sharpened him into a certifi-
Amazingly. And they’re doing a lot of drugs and stuff, but I
able double threat, more Bill Murray than Joe Piscopo. “I think
guess they’re the wrong drugs.” (Rock is totally, militantly, drug-
Chris approached the project sort of like an acting clinic,"
free.) “I hate colleges. No, I don’t hate ’em, but I rather not play
says LaBute. “Especially with Morgan. You could actually
’em. I like people that pay bills; that have bad sex. Kids never
watch him studying the guy."
have bad sex. I like grown-ups.” Unless those grown-ups hap-
“When we first met,” says Kevin Smith, “I told him I don’t de-
pen to be in casino audiences. “High rollers get free tickets. I
viate from the script. I hate ad-libbing and improv.” According
want people that are dying to see me. I don’t need the Kathie
to Smith, Rock was a little uneasy with the idea, until he saw
Lee crowd. I’ll give them a good show, I just don’t have as
Chasing Amy. Says Smith: “Chris called and said ‘Man, you 
much fun. But I’ll do it anywhere. I’m a professional comedian. I
can put anything in my mouth.'" (To which the ad-lib-phobic
can play the Apollo and I can play in front of Congress."
Smith responded, “Anything?”) In the end, Rock still wound up 
 Rock's ability to please, and the fact that he has pleased vir-
sneaking in a few one-liners. “Look, nobody hires me to not be
tually everyone, everywhere, has left him at a dangerous cross-
funny. Nobody really minds improv from me that much.” 
road in his stand-up career. He’s well aware that comedians
On a movie set, where Rock loses the feedback of a live audi-
 tend to burn out. Or, that like a few of his idols—Woody Allen, 
ence, he has an unusual way of determining what’s funny. “When
Steve Martin, Eddie Murphy-they permanently denounce
stand-up and leave audiences wanting. Now that Rock is wide-
ly considered the world's finest practicing stand-up comedian, I 
ask him why someone would give that up. “People don’t want
to see you flabby,” he says. “It’s weird. There are no great 20-
year-old stand-ups. Everybody does their best work in their 30s
and 40s. But after that, where can you go with it? That's the
thing. Where is there to go?” For Rock, this is a more physical
burden than spiritual condition. “First of all, you don’t want to 
go on the road. You don’t want to travel that much, to do
SEE BUYLINE FOR DETAILS AND STOR
shows every night, yada, yada, yada. If you’re Steve Martin
playing the Garden, where do you go after that? You tell me.
Where do you take it?” You get the sense Chris Rock may soon
join the ranks of comedians no longer available live.
 Rock may be ready to mothball the leather stand-up suit, 
but he’s not exactly embalmed. “I’m gonna write a novel
next,” he says, dead serious. “I’ll probably read another
book and parody it.” Then there’s the upcoming Osmosis
Jones, Warner Bros.’ big-budget animated comedy about a
streetwise blood cell, which allows Rock to flex his not-so-
secret weapon, that instantly recognizable, cartoon-ready
ADDY AND BRIDGET TRAMA.
voice. Then, in the footsteps of another retired stand-up,
he’s got a script he cowrote with a man named Marshall
Brickman, who also cowrote a little film called Annie Hall.
Rock plans to direct. He knows this is a Hollywood cliché. I
say, “You can’t win.” Rock says, “I already have.”
Meantime, Rock has his various day jobs to return to; he
even hosted the MTV Video Music Awards (again) in Septem-
ber. There's a lot to do and no time for dessert. He seems a
GROOMING, MIKE
little tense. But relaxing is out of the question. Like exercise,
it's just not funny. “Everyone's trying to get me to do yoga.
Yoga. I’m not into it. I feel fine. Why do people do yoga?” he
asks rhetorically. “It clears their minds. I embrace the clutter
in my head. I like it. What funny guy's got it all together?” ■
BAZAAR NOVEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
