energy, which comes from an ocean note, bergamot and lemon
verbena. There's also a drop of oak moss.” (Yates can't stop
breathing in the oak moss. “It reminds me of camping,” she says.)
Reaction: “I love it,” declares Yates three days later. “All my
friends love it. My boyfriend loves it."
Name: “Flirt,” says Yates. “It makes me feel sexy and girlie, but
not in an overtly sex-bomb way.”
What’s similar in stores: Donna Karan Cashmere Mist, Annick
Goutal Gardénia Passion, Jo Malone Gardenia.
JILL CUNNIFF, LUSCIOUS JACKSON SINGER AND BASSIST
What she’s worn: Joy (but not by Jean Patou-“It was an off-
the-street oil from the Village, and if I smell it now I remember be-
ing 14 and 15”); L’Occitane Verbena, Turkish Rose essential oil.
Hometown: New York, NY.
Fragrance philosophy: “I dislike artificial scents. This summer
we had a tour bus driver who loved Stick-Ups, and we were
nauseated the whole time.”
What doesn’t make her sick: “I visited a lavender factory in 
France when I was seven. I also really like citruses.” (Cunniff didn’t
Kose McGowan.
like Horowitz’s blood-orange essential oil, however: “It smells like
the cleaner they use at the West 4th Street subway station.") 
Telling details: “I try to make sure every sound serves a pur-
pose,” she says. “Every guitar texture is exact.” Cunniff also
paints: “Blue is my favorite color, but I use fiery colors in my art.”
Translation: "Jill knows what she wants, so I did a simple aro-
matherapeutic blend,” says Horowitz. “I used a hint of tonka
girl Cameron Diaz of
bean (‘It’s marzipan! I want to eat it!’ said Cunniff). The French
home sweet home.
lavender is calming, and on top there’s lemon verbena.” 
Reaction: “You know what’s cool?” asks Cunniff. “It’s not giving
SEX DRIVE
me a headache! It's soothing ... really good."
The patchouli,
Name: Cadmium Water. “Cadmium is the most intense red if
vanilla and
gardenia blend in
you’re painting, and water is blue,” says Cunniff. “To me, it’s a
lush Gucci Rush is
combination of the two.”
a glam slam for
What’s similar in stores: Aveda Inspiration, Guerlain Lavande.
sexy southern
LAURA MERCIER, MAKEUP ARTIST AND CREATOR OF LAURA
belle Ashley Judd.
MERCIER COSMETICS AND SKINCARE
What she’s worn: Patchouli (“When I was a hippie, with long
EARTH ANGEL
skirts and big hair”), L’Artisan Parfumeur rose and amber oils.
Avon Perceive's
spiritual
Hometown: Born in the African Congo, Mercier moved to
sandalwood and
Provence when she was four. When she isn’t traveling to work on 
enlightening orchid
ad campaigns for Calvin Klein and Versace, or to make up clients 
can take ethereal
like Madonna and Ashley Judd, Mercier is based in New York. 
Uma Thurman to a
higher level.
Memory lane: “My memories of Africa are of the light and the
heaviness of the sun. I have wonderful memories from 
Provence: the sound of little insects, the taste of Mediter-
ranean fruits and vegetables."
Scents she loves: “I used to rub amber crystals on my skin be-
cause they would melt and become so sexual and sensual. I love 
smelling like a bunch of roses have been crushed on me."
Telling details: “I’m attracted to muted browns, grays and reds,” 
says Mercier, who showed up for her session in a taupe sweater,
resinous bracelets and bronze makeup.
POWER COUPLE
Translation: “Laura is sophisticated and elegant,” says
Horowitz. “Her clothes are earthy, so her fragrance followed
suit. The rich ambers and sweet vanilla create muskiness.
together. Tom and
The only floral note is a hint of Arabian rose."
Reaction: “J’adore,” exclaimed Mercier after 45 minutes of
refining her fragrance. “It’s a potpourri of all the scents I love.”
Name: Cleopatra. “The scent and the color make me think of the
Orient, and because there’s Egyptian musk at the base of it.”
What’s similar in stores: Fendi Theorema, Chanel Coco. 
122
BAZAAR NOVEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
