for the ride, sitting off camera while Pacino conducted his
interviews with scores of noted academics, directors and
actors. Now Spacey speaks of Lemmon and Pacino with a
humor and warmth that borders on veneration, giving a
glimpse of the Kevin Spacey who once was, and to some
extent still is, the nerdiest of theater fans. It occurs to me-
putting aside all consideration of who he is as a private in-
dividual—that this is who Kevin Spacey is becoming as an
actor, a shotgun marriage of Lemmon and Pacino, two
great American performers and stars who seem, on the
face of it, improbable bedfellows.
“He’s a strategist as an actor, and like Lemmon he doesn’t 
look like a film star,” agrees Mendes. “While we were shoot-
ing American Beauty we talked a lot about The Apartment
and the way Lemmon made that character so real and nor-
mal, right down to the way his hair changed through the
course of the movie, becoming both more and more dis-
tressed and yet more and more true to his inner self. Kevin’s
concentration is like a laser beam. And like Pacino, you al-
ways feel certain he's going to find those moments that will
make the hairs stand up on the back of your neck.”
Spacey has worked enormously hard these last two
years, turning his career in this new direction that seems to
fit so well. In between productions of Iceman in London and
New York (where he lives along with his dog in a small
Greenwich Village apartment), he shot three movies back-
KATHERINE
to-back: American Beauty, Ordinary Decent Criminal, based
on the life of the Irish gangster Martin Cahill, and The Big
“If you come to me and say, ‘I hear you’re a bigot, I hear
Kahuna, produced by Spacey's own Trigger Street Produc-
you're a pedophile, I hear you cheat on your taxes,’ you bet
tions, a $2 million movie about two salesmen in which he
your ass I’d stand up and defend myself, because those are
stars with a pal from L.A. Confidential, Danny DeVito.
things I don't want to be associated with and I find repre-
Spacey set up his production company to make low-budget
hensible. But what’s wrong with gay people? Why should I
films that will both bolster his credibility and keep him
be pressed to stand up and say I'm not one of them?"
steadily supplied with good parts should the studio well run 
Spacey may choose not to take journalists on a personal
dry. He's already talking about a screen version of Iceman,
journey of his experience, but when you meet him he's
and foresees a small run of films based on plays, because
much funnier and more intimate than expected. While he
the material is on hand and he sees a ready way into it.
was at Juilliard, he began his professional career doing im-
“I’m just as susceptible as anybody to the things that
T-SHIRT, GUCCI
pressions as a stand-up comedian, and during the course
pull and tempt you,” Spacey says. “You have to seek out
of lunch, as he chats and picks at the salmon he has or-
people and material that are sincere and driven by a simi-
dered from the still giggling waitress, his voice drops un-
lar sensibility to your own. Pretty obviously I'm not only in-
cannily in and out of some of those he's admired or met or
terested in making lots of dough and being famous. As far
worked with. Right in front of my eyes he morphs into
as Hollywood goes, I don't want to contribute to the prob-
Johnny Carson, Katharine Hepburn, John Gielgud, Danny
lem, whatever I perceive the problem to be."
DeVito, Jack Lemmon and Al Pacino. These last two have
What does he perceive the problem to be?
become his career guides as well as close friends. He still - "Oh, it's massive. It's massive, and it's ugly," he says
has the photograph Lemmon signed for him as a kid, and it
 with a big grin, too smart, too damned relaxed to be
rdigan, wilk
was Pacino who gave him his first big break in the movies, 
drawn into a harangue about the ills of the movie industry.
in Glengarry Glen Ross, and later invited him to be his co-
He's at a happy place in his career and, besides, he's
conspirator in the Shakespeare documentary Looking for
about to go on vacation. So Spacey calls over the wait-
Richard. Spacey both acted in the film and tagged along  ress and asks for another iced swirly mocha thing. 
e a least and the
74
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
