Picket fences:
Susan (left) and
Eliza Minot.
eople fill every seat in the small 100-year-old 
author of such works as Monkeys and Evening, Susan refers to
this colony of sea-worn white and gray clapboard houses as
library, forcing others to sit on the floor and spill 
her “heart and soul,” and she wrote a portion of Evening, which
out both the front and back doors. The crowd is
she is currently adapting for the screen, on a balcony overlook-
pure Cheever-seersucker suits, pastel cardi-
ing the island’s craggy harbor. “I used to cry during the ferry ride
gans and pearls. Eliza Minot is nervous. It is the
home at the end of summer," Eliza reminisces.
first public reading of her debut novel, The Tiny
As the sisters pose later for photographs near their family
One (Knopf), and she knows most of the faces in the crowd,
cottage, their personalities become quite distinct. Eliza, 29,
family friends from this quiet island off the coast of Maine where 
plays with grass and lets her sentences roam. Susan, 42,
the Minots have summered for three generations. Susan Minot, 
punctuates her words with sarcasm and swift arm move-
older sister and fellow author, proudly introduces her protégé.
ments, and does handstands between shots. “In with the
“Mum’s dead forever,” Eliza begins. She reads quickly and soft-
new, out with the old,” she says teasingly as she consciously
ly, interrupted only by awkward sips from a glass of iced tea.
stands behind a more wooden Eliza in each frame.
 The scene is set in the late 1970s, a chilly Valentine's Day
Eliza, the youngest of seven children-the tiny one-was
in Massachusetts. Via Revere, The Tiny One's precocious 
seven years old when her mother's car was hit by a train.
eight-year-old narrator, is the youngest of four siblings, the
“We lived on a semiprivate road, and the train crossing
kind of girl who sleeps with gum in her mouth to see what
 didn't have an arm. Now it does," she says.
might happen. Via's mother is dead by page one, but the little 
girl attempts to make sense of the loss by reliving each mo-
Susan, then 21, finished Brown University and remembers
coming home and “writing to keep my sanity. Eliza used to
ment in that fateful day. Bonne Bell Lip Smackers and Won-
see me sitting at a desk a few hours each day. To her, it was
der Twins cartoons are detailed alongside stomachaches and
normal.” Eliza recalls, “What intrigued me was the seriousness
sibling rivalry, creating a collage that is Via’s life.
of it. Something was happening.” Artistic expression seems to
It is fitting that Eliza introduces her book in this Minot family
 run in the family; of the seven Minot children, four are artists ➤
setting, a place that has inspired Susan as well. The celebrated 
152
BAZAAR NOVEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
