U.K .- based designer Nicole Fa
rming the old Copacabana night
ladison Avenue into a dramatic flag
store. Phoebe Hoban reports
aturday night was for wives, but Friday night at the
Copa was always for the girlfriends,” explains Ray
Liotta as a coked-up mobster in the movie Good-
Fellas. He was referring, of course, to the Copaca-
FEST; ©YAYOI (2); G
bana, the superswank nightclub off Madison Av-
enue at 10 East 60th Street, which had its heyday
in the ’40s and ’50s. A fabulous faux-Cuban space with a dim-
ly lit mezzanine and palm tree columns (think Desi Arnaz), the
Copa had a two-decade run as an A-list nightspot and was a
PHOTO
regular venue for Frank Sinatra, Mel Torme, Nat “King” Cole,
Lena Horne, Jimmy Durante and Jerry Lewis. Barry Manilow
further immortalized the club in his 1978 hit “Copacabana.” 
ASSOCIATES;
 Every generation gets the entertainment it deserves.
Now, after being vacant nearly 10 years, the swinging Copa
is being reincarnated as an airy fashion emporium for the
millennium, right across the street from Barneys. The Lon-
don-based designer Nicole Farhi is opening her first Ameri-
can superstore here this month, in a 20,000-square-foot,
two-story space designed by Gabellini Associates. Al-
though Farhi is a name brand in the United Kingdom, with
FROM TOP: COURTESY
nine stores including a New Bond Street flagship, she has
maintained a relatively low profile in the United States. Her
new venture, which will contain Farhi’s women’s, men’s and
home collections, as well as a restaurant—Nicole’s—and a
bar, should dramatically change that.
“The store will have a very light feeling,” says Farhi, who
launched her label in 1983 as part of the French Connection
At the Copa ... clockwise
group, chaired by her business associate, friend and former ro-
OTOGRAPHS, CLO
mantic partner Stephen Marks. “You will enter it via a bridge,
and everything inside will remind you of floating," she says, fin-
gers aflutter. “Michael Gabellini, the architect, asked me what
materials and colors I like, and he understood that the clothes
are not aggressive, but gentle. They’re sensual, but they’re not
sexy. I don’t like hard things; I like softness and comfort.”
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
