This fall, the new teen TV shows
move away trom the traumas of the
popular and pretty to consider what
gh school was like tor the rest
of us. David Handelman reports.
hen a TV executive I
 It turns out that Lindsey has a lot of kindred con-
know recently raved to
flicted spirits on this fall's TV schedule. At a time in
his coworkers about 
which troubled teens have been making scary head-
NBC's new fall drama
lines, the networks have picked up a half-dozen
 new shows about high schoolers with problems.
Freaks and Geeks, they 
all scoffed. “Nobody,” Part of this is attributable to advertisers seeking a
they informed him, “wants to see a show about   young demographic, and part of it is because, in our
losers.” NBC apparently agrees, having sched- 
 rapidly splintering culture, high school is one of the 
uled Freaks and Geeks, a series about Michigan 
few remaining common denominators: everyone’s
high-school misfits in 1980, at 8:00 ₽.м. Saturday,
endured the hormones, the pressures, the uneasi-
when only nobodies are watching television.
ness of being on that cusp of freedom.
 But losers and outsiders actually have quite a fol-
This fall, in addition to Freaks and Geeks, there's
lowing: Look at the popularity of Ben Stiller, Woody
ABC’s Once and Again, about high schoolers being
Allen, Jason Alexander, Janeane Garofalo and Bill
raised by two divorcés trying to get together; Fox's
Gates. And they provide ample potential for both hu-
Get Real, about three teenage siblings and their un-
mor and drama, a point deftly driven home by the
happy parents who are trying to stay together; the
opening shot of the Freaks and Geeks pilot. The
WB's Popular, about a blonde cheerleader and a
camera pans to the school's bleachers, where a 
dark-haired outsider who become stepsisters when
blond jock vacuously confides to a blonde cheer-
their single parents marry each other; Fox's Man-
leader, “I love you so much it scares me.” Then the 
chester Prep, a TV version of the film Cruel Inten-
camera swoops under the bleachers to reveal dark-
tions (itself a knockoff of Dangerous Liaisons), in
haired leather-jacketed "freaks" smoking and wise-
which a stepbrother and stepsister vie for power;
cracking; then it veers to three freshmen nerds, ani-
and, for the X-Files-Buffy crowd, the WB’s Roswell,
in which the school outsiders are aliens incubated
matedly reenacting scenes from Caddyshack.
after the fabled New Mexico flying-saucer
Negotiating her way through these social strata 
is our heroine, Lindsey (Linda Cardellini), a
Janeane Garofalo in the making. Lindsey is an at-
tractive dark-haired girl embarrassed by her
smarts, hiding her blossoming body under a bulky
army jacket, trying to bridge the cliquey chasms
while figuring out who she’ll be for the rest of her
life. Class cutter or “mathlete”? Rebel or good girl?
334
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
