transformer
CHANGE YOUR LIPSTICK, CHANGE YOUR LIFE. THE FACE YOU PUT ON SENDS A MESSAGE, LOUD
AND CLEAR. IS IT THE RIGHT ONE? SUSAN VAUGHAN BREAKS THE COSMETIC CODE BY ANALYZING
A SERIES OF ICONIC FACES ALL DONE ON KATE MOSS. MAKEUP BY DICK PAGE. HAIR BY NICHOLAS
JURNJACK. FASHION EDITOR: MELANIE WARD: PHOTOGRAPHED BY RICHARD BURBRIDGE
Whether it’s Cher’s vampish eyeliner, Courtney  and sexual in an adult way, the doll voted Least
Likely to be Cuddled. So what happened when
Love's good girl-bad girl makeup or Calista 
Flockhart's plain-Jane hair, everything from lip-
Sweet 16 Barbie was created, in 1974, as a mat-
ter of marketing diversity? Softer eyeliner, a fairer
stick shades to hair length clues us in to what
 complexion and a new hue of frosty pink lipstick 
someone is all about. We can't help it. Pop cul-
all meant to signal a kind of innocence and youth
ture has created an entire iconography of cues
designed to give us a quick read on a woman's that the classic Barbie never seemed to possess
character: heavy, smeared black liner tips us off 
before. Suddenly she was acceptable Seventeen
to her sluttishness; icy blonde hair plus matte red
magazine material. And Sweet 16 Barbie is
lips says in semiotic shorthand that she’s a rich
herself a far cry from Malibu Barbie, an Amazon
whose bronzed skin and bleached-blonde
bitch; just a hint of makeup lets us know that 
hair suggest the California beach-and-aerobics
she's a nice girl inside and out. Though some of 
these signals, like black eyeliner, appear to be
ethos, making her a model for the '80s.
 Kate Moss, pictured on the next five pages, is
cultural codes, there's more to it than that. 
herself an equivalent cultural icon, a kind of living
Many of the messages we create with the
language of makeup may actually be biologically
Barbie for the ’90s. It’s her ability to morph into so
many different characters with minor changes in
driven artifices that serve to fool Mother Nature, or
makeup and hair (courtesy of makeup master Dick 
at least throw her off track. For instance, when we
Page and hair pro Nicholas Jurnjack), her capacity 
use reddish lipstick or blush, we mimic many of 
the effects of the hormonal changes of adoles-
to transform herself over and over, that keeps us
cence. Estrogen causes lips to fill out and increas-
captivated. So though your own potential to
morph with makeup may not be as dramatic as
es facial circulation, causing a kind of natural pink
blush that indicates sexual maturity and fertility. So 
Kate's, the next time you reach for a frosty pink
blush or a wicked red lip gloss, perhaps you’ll
we may be destined by Darwinian selection to
think more about how the choices we make con-
read sexual implications from red lipstick.
If you want to see how makeup makes the girl,
vey something about us that’s more than just skin
consider Barbie, that hotly debated femme fatale
deep, how makeup makes others think differently
who has only occasionally changed her look since
about who we are at the core. As Oscar Wilde
she was first poured into her now famous plastic
once quipped, “A man’s face is his autobiography.
mold more than 40 years ago. In her fascinating
A woman's face is her work of fiction." By sug-
dissection of the doll’s history and image, Forever
gesting what character a woman wants to be
Barbie, M.G. Lord explores how the doll's check-
today, what side of her multifaceted self she wants 
ered past is reflected on her face even today.
to show, the transformations that makeup makes
Apparently modeled after a sexy German doll-
possible allow us all to go from Hitchcock heroine 
who was herself modeled on a prostitute-Barbie
to rock & roll tigress to Hollywood starlet and back 
retains the sharply lined eyes and powder-blue
again, before you can say “Maybe it’s Maybelline.”
shadow of her cheap and inviting streetwalker
And though who we are underneath may not
change, who we appear to be definitely does.
past. There's no question that she looks savvy 
and the state of the
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
