Backstage
t Cynthia
ack approach to looks.  By Emily Dough
eanine Lobell’s first makeup phase was
an experiment in bad taste. “It all start-
ed with teal mascara and blue eyeliner.
l piled it on when I was a teen," admits
the founder of Stila Cosmetics. “Next
came my mod-punk phase, with red
lipstick and a severe bob, followed by my funky-
hippie phase, with heavy kohl liner.” Now, Lobell, a 
30-something pixie with huge brown eyes, wears
practically no makeup, even while being pho-
tographed for Bazaar or attending the Emmys with 
her Mr. Hollywood husband, Anthony Edwards
(that nice Dr. Green from ER). “Just a bit too much 
makeup can make me look harsh,” says Lobell,
When Lobell plays dress-up as
Mrs. Hollywood, she slightly alters 
who does her own makeup for all public appear-
her beauty routine. "I might put on 
ances. “It’s not me, and I want my outside to
a little more eyeshadow or maybe a 
match my inside.” If you can’t find the perfect
fuchsia lipstick. But that's it," she says.
shade of lipstick, follow Lobell’s lead and start 
Celebs like Cameron Diaz and Jennifer
your own cosmetics company. “Ninety-five per-
Lopez book Lobell's services for high-
cent of Stila cosmetics are products that I person-
glam shows like the Oscars. She’ll work 
ally craved,” she says. Funny and fun, smart and
up until the last minute, "then slip 
pretty: The same adjectives that describe Stila
on the makeup and dress in the car."
makeup can be used to sum up its creator.
Although she lugs around a jam-packed
makeup case for work, Lobell doesn’t carry 
"I was a vegetarian up until I got pregnant. Then I was like,
a personal cosmetic bag. "Instead," she
'I'll have a steak, please, " says Lobell, the mother of two.
says, “I’ve got the empty ashtray in my car, 
where I keep my makeup-just three
olescent bliss
things I put on while I drive to work.”
In the driveway: Stila Cover Up Stick,
Shade C. "I've got dark circles, so I 
live for concealer." Lobell dabs it on 
with her finger, or uses a brush when 
she needs to look “extra good."
Turning onto La Brea: Stila Convertible
Color in Orchid. “I always used to smear
lipstick on my cheeks and lips, so I developed 
this Convertible Color, an all-purpose
cream that works well on both."
Stoplight at the intersection of La Brea 
and Sunset: Stila Mascara in Azur. “I’m too 
lazy to wear shadow or liner, so I wear 
navy-blue mascara. The hint of blue makes
me feel like I’m making more of an effort."
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
