As female rites of passage go, it’s among the more
unpleasant: The split-second realization that, yes, that
really is a wrinkle radiating from the corner of your eye
and not some temporary crease caused by a close
encounter with your pillowcase. A youth-preserving 
decision is in order. Dana Wood weighs in on the 
current crop of wrinkle-erasing injectables.
Photographed by Elliott Erwit
On a recent visit to dermatologist Fredric Brandt’s Manhattan
office, the defiantly youthful Goldie Hawn types are out in full
force. Everywhere one looks there is ample evidence that
Brandt, a Prada junkie who is based in Miami but spends one
week a month in New York, is adhering to an ungodly sched-
ule of unlining his lined legions. His matched set of black gar-
ment bags, yet to be unpacked, lies crumpled in the corner of
his office, a half-eaten bagel sitting on his desk. A steady
stream of patients buzz in and out at 15-minute intervals,
grateful for a wave of his magic hypodermic wand.
But Brandt, the self-proclaimed "biggest user of Botox and
collagen in the country,” is just one of a handful of prominent 
dermatologists and plastic surgeons who spend an increasingly
large portion of their day poking needles into patients’ faces. A
new wave of fillers, deemed far more in sync with actual skin tis-
sue than their predecessors, has hit the market. Two of the new
darlings-Dermalogen, a bovine-collagen substitute, and Allo-
Derm, an injectable implant-are culled from human cadaver tis-
sue. Within a year, the European superstar hyaluronic acid is ex-
pected to clear FDA hurdles and be available nationwide. (Like
collagen, hyaluronic acid is a natural and basic component of the
human skin.) And then there's Artecolle, a partially permanent
filler already in use in Europe that may eventually make its way
here. Comprising micronized plastic beads and bovine collagen,
it works on this basic premise: After injection, the collagen dissi-
pates, leaving the plastic beads behind to plump the skin. Like
hyaluronic acid, it’s not yet approved by the FDA.
Small wonder, then, that increasingly younger patients, in 
their 20s and 30s, are hopping on the injectable bandwagon 
in an effort to wipe away expression lines and fledgling wrinkles,
hoping to stave off full-blown plastic surgery. Now in her early 30s,
New York City-based makeup artist Michelle Champagne has
been experimenting with collagen, in one form or another,
since the tender age of 15. Currently a patient of Manhattan
dermatologist Dr. Debra Jaliman, Champagne relies on a rota-
tion of Zyderm (a form of bovine collagen) and Dermalogen for
plumping her lips. “I can’t decide which one I like better,” she
says. "They say Dermalogen lasts longer, and it's my impres-
sion that it does. It just seems like a hardier substance." A min-
imalist on the physical-appearance front, Champagne ►
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
