fringe binge
The entry-level version of this fall's crazy eyes:
just layer on the lashes. The new Lashes by the
Minute service at the Helena Rubinstein Beauty 
Gallery in New York lets you pay a dollar per 
minute until you’ve got the level of lash that you 
want. Or lash yourself at home: “Fake lashes are
the quickest way to make your eyes play tricks on 
others," says Lancôme's Fred Farrugia, who
developed the new Kit Faux-Cils ($19), a set of
fake lashes of various lengths. Farrugia 
recommends using one or two on the corner of
your eyes for a "quietly cool effect." If you want to
work with your natural assets, a layer of Chanel
Maximum Lash Base ($20) gives a fake lash effect
Lovely lashes
without the falsies. And the new Christian Dior 
Diorific Mascara ($22) does to your lashes what
Dior's celebrated Plastic Shine does for lips,
providing intense color and a can't-miss-it gloss.
Reinventing the Compact
Yes, you can build a better make-
up. Isabella Rossellini proves
that with her new Manifesto
line, which is meant to be
smarter and more woman-
friendly than what's already
out there. Rossellini and her
team at the Lancaster Group 
cosmetic firm have been working
for four years on Manifesto, which 
features such brilliant strokes as
Foundation Capsules, portable,
one-use bits of base (“Why can’t I
have makeup that I can put in my
pocket?" Rossellini wondered),
and 32 shades of easy-to-use eye-
lip-cheek color. Manifesto packag-
ing is all clear plastic and mirrors,
but like Rossellini herself, it also
dresses up well, in its own unique
way. The line includes colorful
Bakelite jewelry (which Rossellini
we made the mistake of Wearing one of Tariha
Tarantino's mesmerizing mini tiaras to a friend's
collects), such as bracelets and
art opening. The single band of Swarovski 
rings, that snap around the com-
crystals stole the show; after the 20th “Where
pacts and lipstick tubes. Manifesto 
did you get that headband?” we had to hide it in
hits select Bloomingdale's and
our purse and let the paintings get some
Nordstrom counters at the end
attention. Available at select Saks Fifth Avenue
of this month.
-G. H.
stores, or call 213-694-1998 to order.
284
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
