rainforest. Demeter Tomato (48) pays tribute to the green smell of a
sun-warmed tomato vine. Other fresh picks: the pine-y Spring Green
Vitabath Gelée (49), new mood-lifting Acqua di Parma Lavanda Tonica 
(50) and Chanel No 5 Voile Parfume (51), a light take on the classic.
HIGH-SCORING SKINCARE
With three times the active ingredients of Crème de la Mer, it’s no
wonder that the new Eye Balm by La Mer (52) works miracles on 
eyes and elsewhere. It melted away one editor’s 10-year-old scar in
less than three weeks (we swear); another editor applied it to a huge
pimple and swelling reduced within hours.
51
Famous faces: Models Gisele and Georgina Morgan-Grenville both
vote for Kiehl’s Ultra Facial Moisturizer (53). Martha Stewart won’t go
to bed without Mario Badescu Revitalin Night Cream (54). Model
Michele Hicks swears by Elizabeth Arden Eight Hour Cream (55) for
dry, chapped skin and lips. Aerin Lauder, Estee Lauder's creative direc-
tor, says her “new addiction” is Lauder’s Go Bronze Tinted Self-Tanner
(56). Top editorial manicurist Elisa Ferri says Nars Makeup Primer (57) 
works miracles, promising, “You won’t even need foundation.”
At the end of a long night, 5S Makeup Eraser (58) removes the most 
heavy-duty makeup in one easy sweep. Five-second facial: foamy Bio-
therm Biopur Pure Cleansing Gel (59).
 Now that we’re addicted to monthly Brazilian bikini waxes at NYC’s 
J. Sisters salon, we've stockpiled Karin Herzog Vita-A-Kombi oxygen 
cream (60), the most luxe way to keep ingrown hairs away.
Decleor Sea and Mountain Sun Protection Cream SPF 20 (61)
works like a hydrating mask, plumping and protecting skin. Best light-
weight protector: Estee Lauder DayWear lotion SPF 15 (62). 
Superstylist Garren survives his insane schedule with soothing Orlane
B21 Oligo Vit-A-Min Eye Balm (63). Other eye boosters: Awake Eye
Concentrate Mask (64) and Lancôme Vitabolic Yeux gel cream (65).
Tiny tubes of Allergan Refresh Plus eye drops (66) fit into the tightest
Daryl K jeans to comfort late-night eyes.
“It erased my stretch marks,” proclaims a fan of Calí Oliva Salata
Moisturizing Body Scrub (67) with olive oil.
Model Stephanie Seymour won’t go outside without derm Norman
Orentreich's CTA Tincture spot cream (68, by prescription only).
A hungover friend asked makeup artist James Kaliardos for skin help.
"Shiseido Revitalizing Essence (69)," he said. "It's magic to dehydrat-
ed skin." Other brighteners: Guinot Re-
newing Care (70), Bioré Pore Perfect
Toner (71) and Dr. Dennis Gross M.D.
Skin Care Treatment Pads (72)
“I’ve never had so much fun waxing my 
upper lip," says a fan of the Lycon Poetic
Waxing Kit (73). Green wax grabs the
shortest of hairs; pre- and post-waxing
herbal soothers minimize pain.
The best body creams are super-rich 
but blendable, like Bliss Lemon + Sage
Body Butter (74), Face Stockholm Man-
go Body Balm (75) and H2O + Smooth-
ing Body Complex (76).
More refreshing than a Fresca, Fresh
Sugarbath (77) bubbling cubes turn the
smallest bathtub into the Place to Be. Minty,
moisturizing Origins Birthday Suit (78) and
Lancôme Re-Source Hydrating Spray (79)
DAVIES & STA
give a happy ending to every shower.
A staple of smooth-lipped editors,
Bloom Aromatherapy Kissable Lips (80)
is as refreshing as a lime Popsicle.
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
