The voice was attached to a tall African man in his 20s. He
wore American jeans and a cotton sweatshirt, a very so-
phisticated look for the Kenyan outback. We started chat-
ting, casually at first. He told me he was from two tribes,
half Kikuyu, half Maasai; I told him we were Americans stay-
ing in Nairobi. He asked more questions about our jobs and
where we lived. It only took a few minutes for the hair to
prick up on my neck, and for me to realize I was being in-
terrogated by some sort of policeman. Finally he left. 
l can’t tell you why I felt so unnerved by this man, but I told
my husband about him later. And he came to mind when I
heard the news, shortly after our return to Nairobi, that the
dismembered body of a young English woman had been 
found in the bush a few miles from that Sand River outpost. I
have thought about Julie Ward a great deal since her death.
She had come to Africa as a young woman ready for anything
and had fallen in love with the country and the air and the ani-
mals and the sunlight, just as I had. We had friends in com-
mon in Nairobi. But I had found my life in Africa-a husband,
a career as a writer—while Julie Ward died an awful death.
 When her body was found in an abandoned campsite on 
September 13, 1988, all that remained was a scorched low-
er leg, chopped off at the knee, a jawbone and a lock of hair.
Her skull was recovered weeks later,
deeper in the bush. Whoever killed
ie was not one of those
her apparently thought they could
hack her up and burn her, somehow
erasing her from the face of the earth.
But they were wrong.
After a quick, indifferent investigation, the Kenyan authorities
announced that Ward’s death was either an accident or a sui-
cide-most likely she had been eaten by animals. But few peo-
ple believed that, least of all her father, John Ward, who has de-
voted the past 11 years to bringing her killers to justice. Finally, 
on March 1, 1999, Simon ole Makallah, the former chief war-
den of Masai Mara, was brought to trial in Kenya’s High Court
for Julie’s murder. A verdict is expected shortly.
John Ward, a self-made millionaire in the hotel business, has
made more than 80 trips to Kenya and spent more than
$800,000 pursuing the case. He has been pressured by the
British government to drop his investigation, which included
charges of an official Kenyan cover-up. He has been castigated
in court as a liar and sued for libel. But he has refused to let go.
“She was my daughter. She was a nice girl. And she died a 
particularly horrible, painful, lonely death, miles from home at
the hands of people who were little more than animals," says
Ward. “Put all that together with the fact that I have a strong
belief that people like that shouldn’t get away with it.”
LETTERS HOME
Julie was 28 years old when she died. She was, by all ac-
counts, a practical English girl, a habitual list-maker and
note-leaver who toiled as a production assistant at a flour-
ishing print-production business in Suffolk. She loved ani-
mals, particularly husky dogs, which she and her mother,
Jan, bred. She liked taking photographs. In 1986, Julie de-
©1998 THE WARD
cided to take a two-week safari in Kenya. She loved it, and
later returned for a monthlong visit. Then, in February 1988,
she took a sabbatical from her job and signed up for a gru-
eling overland tour of Europe and Africa with 26 people
crammed in the back of a converted truck.
406
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
