Clockwise from
bottom: Seiko global-
locator watches;
Under Cover; Steven
Alan with cell
phone-carrying,
kimono-wearing girls;
inside Comme des
Garçons; Alan being
interviewed by a
Japanese TV crew;
street scene in Osaka;
miniature E-mail.
Store owner Steven Alan checks out what's news in Japan's
evolying shopping scene-trom Hawaiian
me des Garçons to gadgets that sing to your p.
've been traveling to Japan for the carries a lot of the same designers plus
last 10 years, and every time I visit
some items we buy in Japan.
I’m amazed at what’s going on in
At Under Cover (one of a chain of stores),
fashion. This time around it was 
located in the same building as my Aoyama
the Hawaiian look. At first it shop, the direction is extremely conceptual.
seemed isolated. But then I no-
Being undercover means these stores are
usually located above or below other
ticed several (maybe even hundreds) of
young, tanned girls wearing blue contact
stores. The designer behind this line, Jun
lenses and sporting platform shoes. They
Takahashi, is one of the more successful 
reminded me a little of Fembots. There are
new Japanese designers, following in the
entire stores devoted to these customers.
footsteps of established Japanese concep-
What else was big? Belgian and Dutch
tual designers like Junya Watanabe and
conceptual design was everywhere, as
Yohji Yamamoto. Takahashi's designs can
were minimalist and highly ornate influ-
be altered, so that you can unzip the back
ences, which resonated on the Tokyo 
of a shirt, the sleeves or a neck, for exam-
streets of Aoyama and Daikanyama. The
ple, to change the fabrics and colors. He
Arts and Crafts style was also popular
has a cult following, and his old pieces of-
with designers such as Yab-Yum and
ten cost more than his new ones.
Okura. But Japan is still where the old and
One place you can find his used clothing,
the new coexist. Riding back on the train
along with that of many other designers, is
from Osaka, I saw two girls dressed in ki-
in Osaka at the Comfort shop. (Which only
monos talking on their cell phones and 
takes three hours from Tokyo to travel to on
drinking iced coffee from a can. Topic of the super high-speed train Shinkansen!) An
conversation: snowboarding.
adorable woman, Kogure, manages the
At my own store in the Aoyama shopping
 four Comfort consignment shops in Osaka.
district of Tokyo, there was a display case
She was dressed head to toe in Comme
ILL LIFES: DAVI
full of photographs of my New York shop
des Garçons and gave me a tour of an
and staff created by the manager in an ef-
amazing stock of designers, including
fort to tie the stores together. This store is
Watanabe, Yamamoto and Comme des
larger than the shop on Wooster Street, but
Garçons. The shop has been around for 10
we try to make it feel similarly intimate. It   years and has a loyal following.
104
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
