Fiona, Mim, Leanne and Kate
lt’s time for the 21st Century
Girls. Discovered during a school
performance by ex-Spice Girl
manager Simon Fuller, Kate,
Leanne, Mim and Fiona
(ages 14 to 16) play their own 
instruments and write their own 
songs. Next month, their first U.S.
single “Scream and Shout” will
be featured in the new movie
Anywhere but Here, starring Susan 
Sarandon and Natalie Portman.
This fall won’t just be about the battle of the
morning anchors. Here’s the story: Taking a
cue from ABC’s fluff-laden yet compulsively
watchable The View, NBC has decided to jump
into the suddenly hot women’s group talk-show 
category, with Later Today, which begins airing
in September immediately following the Today
show. Host Jodi Applegate and correspon-
dents Asha Blake and Florence Henderson
(above) hope to keep the Today show audience
tuned in for another hour. Although the new
program promises to concentrate primarily on
news, health issues and service-oriented
pieces, with Mrs. Brady on board, how could
they resist the occasional pajama party?
It's a far cry from Kojak. Nifty spy gadgets and high irony
abound this fall when David E. Kelley joins the great TV
tradition of the detective show with his newest creation,
AHLOL II A STAN OF ALL HINNILLAR WORD ATTACHANT
CLOCKW
Dale Gilmore to the Wallflowers and has produced for
Snoops. "In pursuit of truth, justice and a big retainer,
Rufus Wainwright and Fiona Apple. But it’s his Largo 
savvy Glenn Hall doesn’t let the Constitution interfere with
show-during which he covers Ellington, Supertramp
and everything in between and sings his Big Star-
the work of her agency," boasts the promo. Gina Gershon
PHOTOGRAPHS,
flavored originals-that's created a following. This
plays the tough-talking, leather unitard-wearing Hall,
fall, his laid-back hipster appeal goes prime time when
along with fellow P.I.s Paula Marshall, Paula Jai Parker and
The Jon Brion Show hits VH1. Early episodes will feature
buddies the Eels, Robyn Hitchcock and Rickie Lee Jones
Danny Nucci. “It’s The Rockford Files for the ’90s, with
performing in the same kind of loose, improvisational
women," says ABC. Okay, but James Garner never had
format as Brion's Largo gigs. An album of his
stun guns or a Blondie and Donna Summer soundtrack.
original songs, Meaningless, also debuts this month.
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
