Never Too Young?
Breast cancer, a disease that usually afflicts women 50 and over,
does-strike young, healthy and relatively low-risk women. Paula
Dranov explores why, and gives expert advice beyond just self-exams on
how to cut your risk in your 20s, 30s and 40s. Photographed by Janet Beller
Most of us deal with breast cancer like we deal with any other chronic disease. A breakthrough 
treatment heads up the 11 o’clock news, but we don’t necessarily pay attention-unless, of 
course, we, or someone close to us, has been diagnosed. “It doesn’t concern me, thank God,”
is the typical response of a healthy youthful generation. Then it's off to Pilates, our high-powered 
jobs, a dinner party. But today's statistics suggest something quite different: Women under 50
(the age after which most women think they'll really be at risk) do get breast cancer and now ac-
count for just over 40,000 new cases annually, almost a quarter of the total, according to the
National Cancer Institute. By the age of 25, a woman's chance of getting the disease is one in
19,600; by the time she turns 30, her risk is much higher, one in 2,525; by age 40, one in 217.
The worst part: Breast cancer usually strikes younger women who have few, if any, risk factors.
What is primarily an older-women's disease is also a threat to women in their childbearing
years, those women in the peak of their careers, ultraconscious about their looks and often still
active in the dating scene. “Getting cancer when you’re young is a blow to your self-esteem,”
says Katherine Russell Rich, author of The Red Devil: To Hell With Cancer – And Back (Crown),
out this month, and a cancer survivor who was diagnosed at age 32. “You feel anything but at-
tractive when you’re completely bald or have gained 15 pounds from chemo. Who wants to go
out and date looking like that?” Add to that the fact that most people, including physicians,
tend to think a lump you’ve discovered isn’t cancer, explains Rich, whose doctor told her to
wait it out for a month after she discovered a breast lump on her own. “The common response
is: ‘It’s hormonal. You’re just premenstrual. Wait awhile and the lump will go away,’” she says.
Not always the best advice. “During a woman’s childbearing years, there’s a great deal of the
hormone estrogen circulating in her body,” explains Dr. Jeanne Petrek, surgical director of the
Evelyn H. Lauder Breast Center at New York's Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. “This
can put tumor growth in fast-forward, making the disease particularly aggressive.” In Rich’s
case, the tumor grew almost 20 percent over the course of that month.
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
