My two favorite shopping areas in  ing racks. Downstairs is a cafe, which
Tokyo are Aoyama and Daikanyama. Both   often has specialties like blueberry juice
districts have a distinct feel and charac-  and Jamaican curry.
ter. For me, Cabane de Zucca (4-21-29    In Tokyo I met Patrick Ryan, who,
Minami Aoyama, Minato-Ku, Tokyo; 03-  along with Yoshida Mami, designs Yab-
3470-7488) and Tsumori Chisato (4-21-  Yum, a line featured at Okura. A Yab-
25 Minami Aoyama, Minato-ku, Tokyo;
 Yum shop is slated to open in Aoyama 
03-3423-5170) are excellent examples of
soon. The clothes have an Arts and
design and practicality. These two de-
 Crafts feel with a Shaker influence. 
signers manage to maintain an innovative
Miniature shearling earmuffs with a strap
approach to clothes, while still making  connecting the two under the chin were
them very wearable. At Cabane de Zuc-
one example of the whimsical designs.
ca, the feeling was industrial femininity  They were earthy and Spock-like.
with lots of color. The store's concept is 
In Tokyo, the Arts and Crafts move-
like that of a pharmacy, a place you can  ment includes the home as well. An
buy a remedy (shirt, shoes and so on) to 
amazing shop called Tokyu Hands (a
make you feel better. At Tsumori Chisato
"creative life store") sells different kinds
the concept for fall '99 was space and 
of materials for do-it-yourself projects.
craft. The window displayed a floating 
 There are more than 20 levels, and each 
electric train, in a figure-eight infinity de-
 has a different theme. The vibe is similar 
sign. Here, the clothing had a futuristic 
 to that of a home improvement channel, 
yet comfortable feeling, such as ponchos   with videos playing in the background 
or skirts with blanket trim.
of people doing things like stringing
Two stores not to be missed in Aoyama  beads and making birdhouses. Tokyu
are Comme des Garçons (5-2-1, Minami
Hands also sells many traditional and
Aoyama, Minato-ku, Tokyo; 03-3406-
practical items such as old-style canvas
3951) and Junya Watanabe (Aoyama
 bags and traditional Japanese shoes. The 
Two 5-11-2, Minami Aoyama, Minato-ku,
strangest item I noticed was Plantone, a
Tokyo; 03-3498-1400). When I entered 
ball that sings to your plants. Singing is
the world of Comme, the heavy satura-
 supposed to keep the plant happy and 
tion of color gave the collection a ro-
 encourage its growth.
mantic and slightly comical feel. There
While in Japan, I love to check out the
were Moroccan and fairy-tale-like influ-
latest technological gadgets. I found
ences. From its advertising to the archi-
some great toys this time, like a dispos-
tecture, the store ties together these
able sepia camera, a "pretty face" dis-
concepts. Junya Watanabe also focused 
posable camera (for that retouched ap-
on color in her Hawaiian collection, 
peal) and Seiko global-locator watches,
which included shockingly bright Hawai-
which digitally tell you the time in any
ian shirts, displayed against a sun-yellow 
city (soon to be available at my NYC
menti combining Asian a
oods, such as pizza with bi
wall to intensify the effect.
shop). In cafes, people were E-mailing
In Daikanyama, you’ll find shops such  each other on portable devices hooked
TILL LIFES: DAVIE
as A.P.C., Abahouse, Aqua Girl and 
 up to their cell phones. Some of the
Okura. Okura welcomes shoppers with
large electronic companies are hiring
its very serene, Zen-like shoji doors. In-
women designers to design gadgets
side, the clothes (mostly made of dyed
from a feminine perspective.
natural indigo) hang from bamboo cloth-
Who knows what I’ll find next time.
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
