Monday, June 7, 1999 /
9:45 A.M.
I am this close to shelling out $310 on a Saga
fox fur vintage coat (not my size) that looks like it 
could possibly have been run over by a truck,
but it’s fierce and I just have to have it. (While I’m
supposed to be ordering clothing to be pho-
tographed for Bazaar, I find myself in front of my
iMac making insane online auction bids on eBay
for fur coats that look like roadkill on a hanger.)
My husband is totally responsible for getting me
hooked, after he told me that a Ms. Pac-Man ar-
cade video game could be purchased at a real
live auction. I didn’t have to leave the house; I
could pretend that I was a great flea-market-
style shopper-which, sadly, I am not-while
sitting at my desk at work and quietly make bids
for $12,000 diamond Rolexes.
This is the perfect outlet for me. I love something
open all night. I don’t have to speak to anyone.
It's all point, double click and bid! And it's more
intoxicating to live through the bidding process and win or lose   (Could I expense them?)
than to actually get the goods.
7:05 P.M.
“Beaded shoes/slides, $25.00. Seller: rubysohony.”
5:05 P.M.
Lost the silent bidding war on the fur. I’m depressed.
The Chinese wooden slides are so cool, and the seller found
them in NYC. Why is it that I go online at 7:00 ₽.м. and find
But I’m sure to get over it because it’s a slow week at the office
cool shoes here and when I’m out and about in the city, I
and I can devote myself exclusively to eBay.
can’t find jack? Count me in, baby! And how about that seller
Tuesday, June 8
name? It's genius, I love it. And Ruby is stocking all sizes!
9:05 A.M.
Awesome. Click. Bid.
l search through some racy fashion categories. Total disaster.
Wednesday, June 9
“I wonder if they have any Celine clothing from Paris?” I think to 
myself and, lo and behold, I watch as 350 matches appear on   11:15 я.м.
the screen. Delighted, I begin to scroll, and, much to my cha-
eBay originated as a gift from this guy, Pierre Omidyar, to his fi-
grin the 350 matches are all for Celine Dion.
anceé, who collected Pez dispensers and didn’t have anybody
to play with. Omidyar launched this gold mine of an idea in
4:47 P.M.
“Pamela Anderson Lee autographed panties, $400.” Oh, come
 1995 (when electronic commerce was a relatively new concept) 
on, now. That’s disgusting!
so she could trade, buy and sell them. Do you know how
A
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
