man resorts; image bank; courtesy of
 If you're looking for something a little
s soon as you get off 
the plane, it hits you:  less rustic than the Tetons, head for
 Beaver Creek, CO. A recent $4.4 million 
Clean, crisp mountain 
 spa expansion at the Hyatt Regency re-
air that's enough to
 sulted in Allegria, a 20,000 square-foot 
wake up your senses 
ski-in, ski-out spa with outdoor whirlpool
and make you ask why
baths. Other highlights include a juice
you ever chose city life. It's no wonder
and tea bar, more than 20 feng shui-
then that some of the hottest spas-
styled treatment rooms and a meditation
soothing parched skin, sore muscles and
sanctuary. Try the 60-minute Feng Shui
sluggish, stressed bodies-have opened
Inspired Balance Treatment, which starts
up in deer and elk country. The most low-
 with burning sage to ward off bad ener-
key and luxe of the bunch is Amangani in 
Jackson Hole, WY. Amangani, meaning   gy, then moves to a synchronized mas-
 sage by male and female therapists.
“house of peace,” sits 7000 feet above 
Thirty minutes from Allegria, in Ed-
sea level on a nature preserve so serene 
wards, CO, is the Lodge & Spa at
that you’re assured of complete rejuvena-
Cordillera. Sitting atop a 6500-foot bluff,
tion-before you hit the spa. What's dif-
the resort and spa, a member of the
ferent about this resort and spa (formally
Small Luxury Hotels of the World, offers
called a health center here) is that no re-
such a high level of personalized ser-
quest is considered out of the ordinary.
 vice with optional butlers - that you 
Want a masseuse, facialist, manicurist
won’t want to go home. Don’t miss the
and pedicurist to simultaneously pamper 
 Apricot Exfoliation Treatment, with vita-
you in your suite? No problem. Need a 
guide to lead you to Grand-Teton-style 
 mins A, C and E.
 Another Colorado best bet The Peaks 
peace? They’ve already got the water
Resort & Golden Door Spa in Telluride. It’s
bottles packed. Don't miss the Hydra 
 not unusual to see guests lounging in 
Plus facial: Carrot, beet and raspberry ex-
bathrobes at this spa, set amid the ➤
tracts help hydrate wind-chapped skin. 
Gol's pampenno
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
