hen you visit Marc Newson’s London 
apartment, an aerie at the top of a white Georgian terrace house
with views grazing the sycamore trees, it's obvious where the de-
signer's passions lie. Recently converted by the 35-year-old de-
signer of the moment, the interior is sparse and white, furnished
with a couple of his own chairs and a few classics from the funki-
er end of pop design. But most striking are the things laid out on
the living-room floor as neatly as offerings at a shrine. There is
artist Wolfgang Tillmans’ book that records the Concorde’s flight
over London and a wicker toy model of the Concorde. There’s an
American license plate from Newson's 1960 Aston Martin and
books on classic cars and custom knife design (whatever that
may be). In his bedroom there is a sketch for a car design by the
Italian maestro Nuccio Bertone, the man responsible for a flotilla
of elegant cars, including Alfa Romeo and Ferrari coupes. And in
the shiny lacquered orange kitchen, there’s a drawing of a boxy
orange car by Fabrice Domercq, an artist friend.
 Assuming that Newson hasn’t simply stuffed all other signs of 
life into the retina-fizzing lime-green-and-chocolate storage walls,
the interior of his apartment presents an image of a one-track
mind. And given the obsessiveness with which Newson talks
about his current job of designing a concept car for Ford, this
world of boy toys does indeed seem to be the one he inhabits.
 Not that there is anything nerdy about Newson. The London-
based Australian designer has his hair in a long ponytail to his waist,
wears bright street clothes and still has the mellow manner of a
surfer who has just floated in from Bondi or Malibu. Although he is a
design-world darling who lived in Tokyo and Paris before moving to
London a couple of years ago, the monochromatic studiousness of
the European design community has not rubbed off on him. “I’m
perceived as this happy-go-lucky, easygoing Australian backpacker
that stumbled into this career,” Newson says, “but in reality I’ve
worked very hard for it. I’m laid-back as a person, but the way I work 
couldn’t be more opposite than that. I’m completely obssessive.”
Of the post–Philippe Starck generation, Newson has emerged
as one of the surest image makers, and he credits Starck for
opening the doors to his success. “Starck is a kind of mentor,”
says Newson. “He has really paved the way for someone like
me, because he’s the first product designer to have a go at tack-
ling everything from buildings to objects. He proved to the public
that a good designer can design everything."
 Newson’s products, inspired by pop culture and sci-fi, are a far
cry from the politely cool modern-wallflower furniture we see so
much of at the moment. His Embryo Chair has a cartoonish
bounce. His startling silver Event Horizon Table has a hollow, gut-
red interior like a disembowelled robotic insect. He has designed
slick, portable display cases for the interiors of Belgian designer
Walter Van Bierendonck's W.&L.T. shops, and a glamorous
recording studio in Tokyo for Nick Wood and Duran Duran’s Simon
Le Bon. And his work has popped up in movies and on TV:
Madonna was so struck by his Lockheed Lounge chaise, which
she encountered in the lobby of Ian Schrager’s Paramount Hotel in
NYC, that she used it in her 1993 video for "Rain." His furniture
has appeared in The Truman Show and the original Austin Powers 
movie. Attesting to his pop-star status in design circles, Newson
was photographed by Karl Lagerfeld for a 1997 issue of the cult
248
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
