Scent therapist Sarah
Horowitz in her New
York "office"
ian hill (2); melanie edwards/Retna ltd.; Ethan hill (2); dwight 
message SGGT
arah  Horowitz  is  the  coming out of your skin,” Horowitz
Proust of perfumers. In  says. Her clients christen their fra-
her hands, childhood
 grances, and the formulas-about
memories as far-flung as
1500 so far-are filed away.
the scent of turpentine in
 We invited three very different
art class and the pene- women-downtown designer Pixie
 Yates, rocker Jill Cunniff and celeb
trating sunlight of the African Congo
are fodder for the fragrances she  makeup artist Laura Mercier—on a
creates for her clients. “Your sense of 
 fragrance journey. Their paths di-
smell triggers the part of your brain
verged wildly, but in a sense they
that holds your memory and your
reached the same destination. As
emotions," explains Horowitz, 29,
Horowitz told Yates, “We’re going to
who founded her company, Creative
talk about the things you love and
Scentualization, five years ago, and
then turn them into a fragrance.
now divides her time between a
When you wear it, no matter how
secluded studio in Malibu, CA, and a 
hectic things get, it will bring you
Testing 1, 2, 3
suite in Manhattan's Shoreham 
back to yourself."
Hotel. Horowitz begins each session
PIXIE YATES, CLOTHING DESIGNER
by asking which flowers the client re-
What she's worn: Luv's Baby Soft,
members smelling as a child; which
Annick Goutal L'Eau du Ciel.
colors, fabrics, foods and music she
Hometown: Lawrenceville, NJ. “I
likes; which scents her mother wore.
used to go to the swim club, and
Then she gets technical, pulling
they'd cut the grass every morning.
essential oils from her kit, grouping 
Afterward, we'd pick berries."
them into families (sandalwoods or
Telling details: "I like to mix up fab-
citruses, for example) and asking 
rics. I’ll wear a silk skirt with a Shetland
her client to smell each, maneuver- sweater," says Yates, who prefers Earl
ing the little bottles like a champion
Grey tea to coffee, and vacationing by
chess player. Finally she blends the
 the sea to the mountains.
fragrance and fine-tunes it on the ul-
Translation: “Pixie’s vibe is young,
timate testing ground: bare arms.
fresh and urban,” says Horowitz. “Her
"The fragrance should smell as if it is fragrance starts with a burst of >
120
Mercier breathes it in.
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
