otice the new certain label," she says, "or you as-
sume that some clothes don’t look
hair? Geri Halli-
 good because it’s a certain label, 
well has yet an-
 it's a bunch of crap!” She loves a 
other new look.
 bustier top that Dolce & Gabbana 
After departing
 sent her, even though she put it on 
from the Spice
Girls in 1998, Halliwell trans-
 backward at first. “I thought it 
formed herself in what seemed  looked great, and then I noticed
to be the blink of an eye. Out that the bra bits were hanging fun-
went the flame-haired vixen with  ny!” she says with a giggle. For a
a Union Jack dress cut up to  big event, she’ll pull out all the
there (since auctioned off to stops with a drop-dead gorgeous
BBIN RASKIN S
charity), drag-queen makeup  gown. "I'm seeing Prince Charles
and platforms. In came the ’50s  next week; he’s invited me over,”
glamour-puss: sleek hair, subtle 
 says the United Nations goodwill
makeup and heels suited for ambassador. “I’m wearing a Ralph
ladies who lunch rather than for
 Lauren dress, plain black, with
girls who strut. Her debut solo
 Dolce & Gabbana kitten heels.”
When it comes to Halliwell’s dai-
album, Schizophonic (Capitol), is
a dizzying mix of styles, but with 
 ly uniform, it's all about comfort.
that poppy veneer that made the
 “My favorite outfit is a duvet to 
Spice Girls irresistible. "I’ll al-
 lounge around the bedroom!” she 
ways carry Ginger Spice around
says, only half-joking. She’ll wear
with me,” says Halliwell. “My
 Joseph pants, a cozy sweater and 
hormones kicked in later than  flats, or a High Street find, like a
most girls, and suddenly I had  French Connection skirt or Levi's
this new body and I wanted to  with a tight boy's T-shirt. Halliwell
show it off. Now I'm more re- claims she's not a shopaholic, but
laxed and don’t feel the need to  she’ll still pop into favorite stores 
be so obviously provocative."
on her travels, like Fred Segal in
Halliwell admits that while she  Los Angeles, where she bought a
loves Dolce & Gabbana and Ralph
floor-length seashell-pink leather
Lauren, most of her clothes (like her
skirt and matching tube top (she
of course can't remember what
gypsyish outfit, below right) come
brand it is). “Clothes shouldn’t be
from the High Street-London-
speak for fast and cheap fashion-
 taken seriously,” Halliwell says. “If 
and she can't recall the labels of   you overdo it, it's not real, there's
some of her favorite clothes. “If you   no character left, and you’re trying
wear something just because it's a to be too cute."
power style. By Gloria M.
Prada bag
Tufi Duek dress
184
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
