a comic romp costarring Jeanne Tripplehorn in which Grant
plays an English auctioneer sucked into a New York Mafia
family. This is the second movie to be produced by Simian
Films, the company set up by Grant and his longtime part-
ner, Elizabeth Hurley, in the wake of his Four Weddings and 
a Funeral success. Unlike many other actor-producers,
Grant’s and Hurley’s roles are far from honorary. “Nothing
slips by," he says, "without us interfering."
Consequently, he is exhausted. In one recent week, Grant
went from London to New York three times; in another, he
traveled between New York and Los Angeles five times. For
 Notting Hill's New York premiere, he flew in from London for 
an hour. “Which I think is a record,” he notes. He left a Mickey
Blue Eyes scoring session in North London at the end of his
workday and took the Concorde to New York, where he was
met by the Seagram’s helicopter. “Very cool that was,” he re-
flects. “Lovely Seagram’s bar in the helicopter. Me and the
publicist had two fucking huge gin and tonics." At the pre-
miere he walked down the red carpet, cheerily nattering with
the media as he went, took his seat for the first 10 minutes of
the film, then slipped out the back door and reboarded the
helicopter back to the airport and his plane home.
We meet at the London office of Simian Films, three func-
tional rooms in a row house a few yards from South Kens-
ington’s chic shopping district. When he first sits down,
Grant puts on a sweater, but seems to forget what he is do-
ing halfway through the maneuver, so that for the first hour
of our meeting the sweater hangs rolled under itself only
halfway down his midriff, enhancing the charming but slight-
ly distracted air Grant gives off in conversation. Hurley pops
in every now and again, offering apologies and advising
Grant of the latest last-minute adjustments to his schedule.
Until this recent flurry of activity, Grant had only made one
film in four years, Extreme Measures, the medical thriller that
was Simian’s first production. (The film, he says, taught him 
that “there’s a sort of fundamental lack of point in me playing
someone deep and dark when there’s so many people who do
deep and dark better than I do.”) Although he declares himself
irritated when people say he always plays the same role—“You
feel like saying, ‘Go to a video store and rent An Awfully Big
Adventure or Sense and Sensibility. Do your research, you
dimwit” — Grant no longer fights the idea that he can probably
make his best contributions in a certain kind of romantic com-
edy. He acknowledges that in his own life, “I may have taken a
rather determinedly unheavy attitude to life in general over the
years. I’m the kind of English person who doesn’t feel that
emotions are something to get hugely self-indulgent about or
go to 16 shrinks to discuss. I still cling to the notion that for
people who can actually cope and turn blackness into humor,
that is the healthiest way to go. I’m a strong believer in being
too busy to have a nervous breakdown.”
There is something of this attitude in what Grant is best at
on screen. The emotional power of his Notting Hill perfor-
mance hinges largely upon the way he reacts to every
downfall; he shakes off each new heartbreak with a quip, but
you can still see him shattering inside. It is the way his char-
acter represses his pain, and how visibly unsuccessful the
effort is, that makes these moments so funny-and so sad.
The comedy in Mickey Blue Eyes is broader and more
blatant. Grant was partly attracted to the film because the
fish-out-of-water character was one comedy staple > 98
BAZAAR SEPTEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
