ose
enough to go the full monty. “You know how many famous naked
people I saw on Saturday Night Live? Three years, 20 shows a
year. That's 60 famous people. Art nudity is easy.”
That a high school dropout from the mean streets of Bed-
Stuy, Brooklyn, could wind up in an art movie is a testament to 
the continuing metamorphosis that is Chris Rock. Just a few
years ago, Rock was an admired if undervalued SNL alumnus
slouching toward post-SNL masterpieces like CB4 and Beverly
Hills Ninja. Now, he's selling out one-man shows, releasing
high-profile concert videos, writing best-sellers, hosting award
events and splitting the box-office with indie gods and A-list
monsters like Kevin Smith, Linda Fiorentino and, of course,
Ben and Matt. “I don’t think it’s that much of a leap for Chris to
do dramatic acting,” says Smith. “His comedy is hysterical, but
it's also extremely serious and satirical. Chris can do a lot more
than just get laughs.” For Rock, meeting his serious new col-
leagues was like coming home. “It’s kind of like you’re dyslexic
all your life,” he says. “Then someone puts you in a class with
these other dyslexic kids. We were all haaaaat! Ben and Matt,
they were so hot they won the Oscar while we were shooting.
They left for a few days and came back with a statue." While
Affleck and Damon were off becoming overnight sensations,
Rock spent most of his free time on the Dogma set befriending
another colleague with a gift for channeling anger into com-
 thing to prove." He had other motivational issues that he rec-
merce. “I bonded with Alanis,” he says. “She had a big album
ommends to aspiring comedians: "It helps to be broke. And
and I had a big HBO special.” Rock refers to his second com-
to live with your parents. It helps to have not lost your virginity
edy special, the now-classic Bring the Pain (infamous, among
till after you’re 18, 19 preferably, 20, if you can.” (Now that
other things, for its excoriating "Niggas vs. Black People" rou-
he's an expert on navigating the opposite sex, he offers the
tine), and the notion that Pain was unbeatable. “I wanted to 
following free makeup tip: “Ladies. Don’t wear anything that’II
talk to her about the follow-up thing-how you do something
slow you down from leaving. Ever. Men want to leave. You can
that's perceived as brave and groundbreaking and all that. She
look at a girl’s face and tell how spontaneous she is.”)
told me, ‘There’s no pressure, just do what you’re gonna do.’” 
Way before he lost his virginity, Rock was making his mark in 
Despite increased ratings (an HBO spokesperson says Rock's 
 Manhattan comedy clubs, bridging and tunneling over from 
audience has doubled), some critics preoccupied with the fol-
Brooklyn like a hip-hop Tony Manero. “When I started out, I’d
low-up thing branded Bigger & Blacker inferior to Bring the
 be coming from a bad neighborhood to a good neighborhood. 
Pain. Rock disagrees. “I did it,” he says without a trace of false
Just walking a few blocks and seeing those doormen and stuff.
modesty. "Oh, no. They can say that. But I did it."
No offense to Brooklyn, but I didn’t have shit.” Now that Rock
Sometime during the period that Welcome Back, Kotter 
 can afford to live anywhere, he remains in the mixed Brooklyn 
was exporting Brooklyn to the great American outback, 
neighborhood of Fort Greene. "In a lovely carriage house," he
Christopher Rock, oldest of seven children, son of a truck 
says in his best Martha imitation; his wife of three years,
driver and a teacher, was experiencing the joys of being
Malaak, 30, a publicist for UNICEF, attends to the decor. They
bussed to a white school in blue-collar Bensonhurst. Rock 
have no children (yet). Though Hollywood beckons, Rock
does not subscribe to the myth of class clown as good-
doesn’t plan to move. “Brooklyn shaped me,” he says. “This is
will ambassador. “You got beat up anyway,” he recalls.
where I’m staying. I’m not going anywhere.” And as a touring
“There was never a guy who was so funny he never got beat 
comedian who's spent more than a decade strafing the coun-
up. Either you could fight, or you got beat up."
try, he has a pretty good lay of the land. "I've been all over,"
Despite the frequent whoopings, Rock doesn't project bit-
 Rock says with a sigh. "I slept on comedy-club couches, per-
terness, self-loathing or any other psychodrama that tends to
 formed on pool tables, even opened for strippers."
drive great comedians. In person, he has the reticent manner        Now he's traded in the strippers for the Sundance set. After
of a CPA. Rock’s ambition to succeed was activated by a sim- 
 Dogma, Rock will appear in his second "art" movie, Nurse 
ple, time-honored chestnut: trouble with chicks. “Who had 
 Betty, the latest misanthropic opus from In the Company of
good luck dating that's successful now?" he demands.
Men director Neil LaBute. Nurse Betty may be Rock’s biggest
“That's the secret. All the really good-looking guys are bounc-
acting break yet. It casts him with Morgan Freeman as a pair
ers, personal trainers, yoga instructors. I always had some-   of bumbling hit men hired to whack Renee Zellweger, a 
54
BAZAAR NOVEMBER 1999
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
