lett
ers
50
50
Tori Glory
our readers
respond
Darling Praise
I just indulged in the August issue, and I absolutely loved every page of it.
I've been a subscriber to Bazaar for years, and I always enjoy each and
every issue. The articles, the layouts and the fashion spreads set the
standard for everyone else. Lynn Darling's article "Sweet Chastity" was
impressive and so very important. In an industry that usually plasters its
covers with hints on how to please a man, this piece was a liberating and
informative change.
Thank you so much for the article on Tori
Spelling ["Tori Tells," by Jancee Dunn,
August]. Finally, Spelling received the credit
she deserves: for taking risks, believing in
herself and keeping both feet planted firmly on
the ground. -Erika Friedman, via the Internet
Mama Mia
What a wonderful surprise to see your story
on Jerry Hall ["Mama Said," by George
Hodgman, August]. I loved how you mixed
the new and old photographs together. And
the article was very insightful without being
invasive. Great job! -Mona Wakim, Chicago
-Jeannette Diane, via the Internet
Thank you for printing the article on female
celibacy. It isn't a subject that I expected to
see in your magazine. It was comforting to
hear the perspectives of other women. It
was also helpful to read the suggestion
that a woman can be celibate by choice
with dignity.
-K.C., New York City
Rolling Rocked
| was absolutely blown away by the
fashion spread "Rolling Thunder" shot by
Greg Delves [August]. He's a genius! It
was definitely the most original way to
show boots, shoes and bags that I've
ever seen! -J. Marshall, via the Internet
I picked up my wife's August issue of
Bazaar and was so impressed with the
pictures of Jerry Hall that I just had to
write this letter. She looks as beautiful
now as she did 25 years ago-maybe
even better! Thanks. -Alec Regis, Toronto
Send correspondence to: Letters to the Editor, Harper's Bazaar, 1700 Broadway, 37th Floor, New York, NY 10019.
Letters chosen for publication may be edited for length and clarity. Visit the Bazaar Web site, www.bazaar411.com.
E-mail address: bazaar@hearst.com. Please include your address and daytime phone number.
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
PHOTOGRAPHS, CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: WAYNE MASER; PATRICK DEMARCHELIER; CLIFF WATTS.
