Family Shabbat
fash
Or
Discussing the Hervé
Léger couture line
BCBG Max
Azria fall
'99 looks
Azria's cell phone rings. "The phone is constantly
with him," explains his lithe, pretty Ukrainian wife,
Lubov, BCBG Max Azria's design director. "Some-
times he's driving and talking on two phones at the
same time. That's when I'm stressing."
In a moment recalling Bette Midler in Down
and Out in Beverly Hills, Azria examines his man-
icured nails as he drives. Sunlight bounces off
the clear polish. "We take the kids with us to
Contempo Nails of Robertson," Lubov explains.
"Max doesn't really like getting manicures, but he
loves the massage that goes along with it."
10:00 A.M. Azria is meeting with two executives
who work with him on the Hervé Léger couture
line. In September 1998, with his acquisition of
the house of Léger, Azria became a champ at
fashion-world Monopoly, buying up Boardwalk
and Park Place after accumulating a handful of
utilities. Moving game pieces around even more,
he fired Léger and replaced him with two younger
designers, Eric Sartori from Azzedine Alaïa (for the
ready-to-wear collection) and Jerome Dreyfuss
(for Léger's debut couture collection). "Tell me
what your plan of attack is for Hervé Léger," Azria
says to his colleagues in French. "I want to be in-
formed of everything that's happening. If you keep
me informed, everything will be simple."
Percent Azria speaks in French in a day: 30.
10:45 A.M. "Give me one cigarette," he says
to his assistant, who, knowing that her boss
has quit earlier that day, protests. "I know, I
know," he says, gratefully puffing on a Marlboro
Light. "I went to a hypnotist this morning, but it
is not working. It is bullshit."
11:00 A.M. At a fitting, Azria eyes a silky orange
slipdress trimmed with pink lace. He rubs the
garment against his cheek. "I like it when the fab-
ric feels soft and light, like a caress."
Azria likes Japanese food and sad movies, not
necessarily at the same time. "I cry easily," he
says. The last film that had this effect on him, he
reports, was Stepmom.
A love letter (from one of many he keeps in a
portfolio in his office):
Thank you so much for all you've done! It
means so much and feels so good to wear really
beautiful clothes. [heart] Jennifer Love Hewitt
3:30 P.M. Azria confers with a fabric salesman
and tries to bargain the price on a leopard print
down a few dollars. "I don't think so," the
salesman says. When Azria leaves the room for
a minute, the salesman explains: "The price is
in deutsche marks. Perhaps on Monday the
dollar will be stronger, and we'll use that con-
version. I'd hate to insult Max."
8:30 P.M. Back home in 90210. Azria's family,
friends and a few employees celebrate Shabbat.
At a table set for 20, Azria chucks challah bread at
each plate and then leads the room in prayer. "You
need to be a little crazy to have a good life," Azria
admits. "What's the line from Zorba the Greek?
'You will be crazy if you don't act a little crazy.""
10:30 P.M. Azria sits on the sofa with his arms
outstretched and eyes closed. Wife by his side, his
son massaging his shoulders, he looks like a
Cheshire cat. "Happy at last," his son says. "The
fashion guru sleeps." That's when Max Azria deliv-
ers his final quote of the day: a gentle snore.
Copyright 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
PHOTOGRAPHS: RUNWAY, DAN LECCA; ALL OTHERS, EVAN HURD.
