beauty
school
shoulder," says Cutler. Some stylists have people actual-
ly point to the place on their neck or chin where they
want their hair length to be. Others, like those at Salon
AKS, are taught to conduct hands-on consultations; they
hold up their own hair in such a way as to show a client
the potential length and shape for her hair.
Tech talk: Many hairstylists try to avoid using technical haircut-
ting terms, since most of us lay people don't know what they
mean. But when your stylist does decide to speak in haircut-
ting-ese, use this primer.
Layering: This just means hair won't be all one length.
Graduation: Ends aren't blunt but, instead, are slightly stacked.
Bob: a simple classic shape that can be layered, angled for-
ward or back, with bangs or without.
Razor cut: not a haircut, but a technique of adding texture by
cutting and thinning hair with a razor.
Bangs: can be long or short, angled or layered, blended into
the sides, fringy, wispy or heavy.
Shaving: removing neck hair on a short haircut with a razor.
Color confusion: The essential problem is that many words
in haircolor-ese can mean a number of things, explains bi-
coastal color king Louis Licari. Richer color can mean
lighter, darker, more red, less red. "And, take the word
chestnut," adds Paul Labrecque of the Paul Labrecque Salon
& Spa in New York City. "You'd be surprised. To some
women, it doesn't mean red at all. You just can't assume
anything with color." Here, other terms of confusion.
Ash: pale color; an absence of warming tones like red or gold.
What you consider ash blonde, a stylist could be interpret-
ing as golden or dirty blonde.
Blonde: any color on the lighter side of light brown.
Natural: understated color that doesn't look like it's had
anything done to it. But, says Licari, you don't want color
you have to stand under a light to see, so make sure you
and your stylist define natural. "What I'll think is understat-
ed, a client might consider boring," he says.
Because most clients don't have a true concept of color
shades, it's better to use terms that are more visual, such
as "a little bit lighter with some gold added," explains Licari.
Most commonly
requested celeb dos:
Elizabeth Hurley
•Cameron Diaz in
There's Something
About Mary
•Meg Ryan
Jennifer Aniston
Katie Couric (a
businesswomen's
favorite)
Long-haired
fashion models
To minimize
mistakes (like hair
cut too short, brows
overplucked), find an
expert with a good
chairside manner.
Which is another reason why photos are a great help to col-
orists; if you have pictures of models or celebs with the
haircolor you want, show them off.
Makeup mishaps: A woman we know had her makeup
done for a friend's wedding. "Pretty" makeup is what she
asked for. One hundred dollars later, she was in the ladies'
room wiping off blackened eyebrows, an inch of powdery
foundation and maroon lips. "She should have done a lot
more talking before," says Tina Murgas, makeup artist for
NYC's Mark Garrison Salon. Communication is key (Murgas
swears no one has ever wiped off makeup that she's done).
Makeup artists should ask you what you like, how many
products you typically use and how much time you want to
spend in front of the mirror, Murgas says. Try these other
tips for talking makeup.
Au natural: Be clear about what you mean by "natural looking."
"To some, natural means wake up, shower and be out the door,"
says Murgas. "To others, it's just paring down eyeshadows."
Color-ese: Have your makeup artist show you three shades
from a certain color range you like, then together select the
best shades for you. Also, talk texture; explain whether you
want glossy, see-through, matte or opaque.
Powder puff: Some fear cakiness, but powder is essential to
achieving even skin tone and eliminating that telltale mid-
day shine. To avoid looking overdone, have the artist apply
powder with a brush rather than a sponge.
Shimmer and shine: Shine has nothing to do with the frost
that defined the '70s. Now it's all about subtle highlighting
with silver, gold, white or light bronze.
The dew factor: Our advice is leave this greasy, glistening look
to models, or risk looking like an oil slick.
PHOTOGRAPHS, CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: ROBERT FAIRER; NO CREDIT; ROBERT FAIRER (2); SYGMA;
GREGORY PACE/SYGMA; MAX B. BILLER/ARCHIVE PHOTOS; REUTERS/FRED PROUSER/ARCHIVE PHOTOS.
148
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
