fash
on
Móa in her
own sweater
Móa's Musts
•Shoes you can move in
Funky futuristic dresses
•Textured fabrics
A high-tech watch
•Face glitter
•Utility bags
A party to wear it all to
Móa does the diva
act onstage.
PHOTOGRAPHS, CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: LEETA HARDING, FASHION EDITOR, ROBBIN RASKIN SOLIS, HAIR, LAURA DE LEON FOR MARK GARRISON SALON, NYC, MAKEUP, MARY WILES
FOR KRAMERS KRAMER; JIM HAWKINSON; GREG BROOM; LEETA HARDING; GREG BROOM; LEETA HARDING; GREG BROOM. SEE BUYLINE FOR DETAILS AND STORES.
Móa loves texture:
Costume National
dress with leather
paillettes
CRITERION
G-Shock
Baby G
watch
in
CK Calvin
Klein bag
her closet
Balenciaga
top and
trousers
Icelandic rocker Móa shows us her brand of
international style. By Gloria M. Wong
hat do you wear
if you're a tech-
no-electronica
babe from Ice-
CK Calvin
Klein boot
Móa's a siren, but in this case slinky does-
n't mean frou-frou or kittenish. "I like a mix-
ture of feminine, clean shapes, but they
must be paired with rough textures or strong
land? Anything fabrics," she says. And forget about mincing
you want. When around in high heels: "I like simple shoes,
Móa, a mini Uma Thurman look-alike, talks most of the time flats-definitely not high
about life in her hometown, Reykjavík, she heels! And fancy dresses-I'm a dress fa-
conjures up a vision of freewheeling living: natic-with rough shoes. You know, I'm
all-night party hopping and clubbing; all- always expecting the unexpected!" That
day sessions in the studio during winter makes sense, since she's been on the move
(when there's just four hours of sunlight a lately, promoting her debut album, Universal
day); and impromptu treks onto the glaci- (Tommy Boy), a dreamy blend of trip-hop
ers and fjords of the Icelandic wilderness. and electronica. She's also a model for the
"Yes, I go out a lot, it's terrible!" says the new CK Calvin Klein Jeans campaign, which
27-year-old singer in New York City, where can be seen on billboards everywhere.
she's on a quick stopover on her way Traveling around the world has influenced
home from a vacation in Bermuda. "We Móa's eclectic tastes; her favorite designers
have a relatively new culture, so it's young include Hussein Chalayan, Alexander
and free. It's really happening."
McQueen and Jeremy Scott. "Blending vin-
tage and new things feels funkier," she ex-
plains. What holds her urban, millennial-
chic look together? A confident sex appeal.
"In Iceland, women are expected to be in-
dependent and are not afraid to be sexy,"
she says. "Even when it's freezing out, girls
will wear the skimpiest outfits." She laughs.
"It would never occur to me to be timid."
Spoken like a true Viking.
Since she comes from a place where
anything goes, Móa's made up her own
idiosyncratic style (think funky, 21st-century
vixen). She's so edgy, she threatens to pop
into the future before everyone else. On-
stage she wears sexy, almost kooky outfits,
pairing a wide lace-up black leather belt and
matching armbands with a Meghan Kinney
long, fitted sleeveless gray turtleneck dress.
☐
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
