close
suburban morality and teenage angst
as it does with male menopause.
American Beauty will, I think, quickly
find its place in the category of unique
masterpieces such as The Graduate,
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and
Ordinary People. It is emotionally spa-
cious, perfectly modulated and seems
likely to redefine Spacey's career and
kick it to another level.
"Kevin has been pigeonholed as a
Machiavelli, the cleverest man on-
screen," says Mendes. "I cast against
type. Here he plays a man who's blind
to the world and outrageous and fool-
ish and charming by turn. This is a
very different part for him, because
audiences can love this character
while being shocked by what he
does. I think Kevin realized right from
the start how big a moment this
I would be in his career if it works."
In the restaurant, Spacey removes his
baseball cap, revealing thinning black
hair. At 39, he talks and bears himself
with the relaxed confidence of a guy quite
aware that he's in top gear these days,
really hitting his stride. "People tend to
"Kevin's concentration is like a laser beam.
Like Pacino, you always feel certain that he's
going to find those moments that will make the
hairs stand up on the back of your neck.'
want you the way they discovered you, and I got discovered in
very dark parts," he says. "It's been the greatest thing in the world
to me when I've heard people say about American Beauty, 'I nev-
er thought he could do this.' Well, I can do it, and I've been trying
to tell people that for years. It wouldn't bother me at all if I found
out they'd offered this role to someone else first and he'd turned
it down," he continues, "because I'd say, 'Bonehead. Thank you,
bonehead.' This is the way careers are made."
Spacey first read TV comedy writer Alan Ball's screenplay
in the summer of last year, when he was still appearing in Ice-
man in London. "I knew right off that it was sensational,
ahead of its time on so many levels that are relevant to the
world we find ourselves in as we walk into the millennium," he
says. "The whole film to me is about perception and how
easy it is to misperceive, or to perceive only what you care to
perceive. People ask, 'How does a thing like Columbine, Col-
orado, happen?' I think this movie answers that question. It's
all right there in front of us. There are usually unnoticed go-
ings-on between families and neighbors and coworkers that
are deep, subterranean truths once you examine them."
At which point Spacey, examining me exam-
ining his tongue nervously fretting at his lip, ex-
cuses himself and bolts out to his car to apply
something to an area that, he tells me, got
burned windsurfing. Keyser Soze windsurfing?
Kevin Spacey, the Valley Boy turned Juilliard
standout and archetypal New York theater maven, windsurf-
ing? It doesn't quite seem to fit, but then for years journalists
have been trying to figure out who Kevin Spacey really is.
There's the mysterious issue of his name, for instance—which
is really Kevin Fowler. Where does the Spacey come from?
Spacey himself isn't letting on, and Internet speculation has
been rife. The game took an unpleasant turn a couple of years
back when a magazine article centered itself around another
rumor, that Spacey is gay, and when he bounds back up the
stairs from the parking lot and sits down again, lip duly salved,
I ask what impact the piece had on him and his career.
He accepts the question graciously enough, even though he
does become a little, well, animated, leaning back in his chair and
waving his arms, as though the memory-whatever he may say
to the contrary-stings. "It didn't have an impact on me at all. It
had nothing to do with me," he says. "People say they're appalled
about my private life being dragged through the pages of a maga-
zine. I was laughing with Ed Norton about this recently, because
my private life wasn't put out there at all. My private life was intact.
That was just presumption, rumor, based on nothing.
72
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
SHIRT, PRADA.
