STARR; LAURA RESEN; DAVIES & STARR; COURTESY OF FREYER COLLABORATIVE ARCHITECTS; NO CREDIT (3).
PHOTOGRAPHS, CLOCKWISE FROM TOP RIGHT: NO CREDIT; COURTESY OF ELSON & COMPANY; DAVIES &
Havhotel
Your Place or MyHotel
If you're a feng shui freak who
can't leave home without a daily
dose of chi, the energy flow
balanced by the ancient Chinese
art of furniture placement, there's
a new hotel just for you. London's
MyHotel Bloomsbury, a 76-room
boutique hotel by Sir Terence
Conran's design team, has serene
interiors (arranged in accordance
with feng shui principles), in-room
spa treatments, a library with a juice
bar and MyChi, a restaurant with
an ultrahealthy, cross-cultural menu
that promises to "unify the body,
mind and soul." Heather Graham and
Michael Stipe have already checked
in, and it's been lan Schrager's
choice when staying in town to
oversee construction of his own
upcoming London hotels. Call 011-
44-171-667-6000 for reservations.
de
Sign
Floor Show
A new line of wool rugs designed by
an impressive group of architects, including
Steven Holl, Tod Williams, Billie Tsien
and Greg Lynn, is available from Elson &
Company, who commissioned the group
to create modern patterns inspired by
Tibetan culture. Call 415-441-6604 for
stores, or see the rugs at "Tibetan Modern:
The Architects Collection," an exhibit
running October 7 to 30 at Tibet House New
York Gallery, or November 19 to December
31 at LIMN Gallery San Francisco.
By Melissa Barrett Rhodes
design beat
More Moss
Moss, NYC's hip design store known
for its museum-quality collection of modern
objects for the home, has just expanded,
with 5000 square feet of furniture from cool
product designers such as Droog, Massimo
Morozzi and Marc Newson (see story on
Newson, Design's New Darling, page 246).
Designed by Harry Allen, the slick new
space will have dioramas inspired by
aquariums and the Museum of Natural
History. And rumor has it that in the near
future, there'll be a Moss springing up in
more cities across the U.S. We can't wait.
Call 212-226-2190 for information.
Oriont Express
Interior designer Christopher Ciccone-a.k.a. Madonna's
brother-has designed Oriont, a new 1930s-Shanghai-
inspired restaurant and cabaret on Manhattan's up-and-
coming West 14th Street for a former owner of nearby
Restaurant 147. A design groupie's choice takeout:
Ciccone's plush velvet sofas, sculptural chairs and tables
will be available to order this month through Bernhardt
Contract. Call 212-888-3232 for information and stores.
Aero Dynamic
Thomas O'Brien, the designer
behind NYC's Aero Studios and
such glam interiors as Giorgio
Armani's and Ralph Lauren's homes
and the upcoming Thompson Hotel
in SoHo, has taken his warm
modernist vision mainstream with a
new 50-piece, extremely well-priced
furniture line. The Thomas O'Brien
Collection for Hickory Chair-
ranging from sleek sofas with built-
in bookcases to reeded mahogany
chests and 1940s-inspired beds-
debuts this month at the High Point,
NC, furniture fair. At select Hickory
Chair dealers and Aero Studios
in early 2000. Call 800-349-
HKRY for information.
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
