In Hollywood, a town that frequently exiles actresses of "a cer-
tain age" no matter how well they exhale, Pfeiffer has segued into
what students of her work may one day call the Dysfunctional
Family Phase (a previous Ingenue Era began in 1988 with Tequila
Sunrise, accelerated into The Fabulous Baker Boys-the first of
her three Oscar nominations-and reached its apotheosis in Bat-
man Returns, in which she turned a vinyl catsuit into a marital aid).
Recent vehicles like A Thousand Acres and The Deep End of the
Ocean have emphasized domestic friction over ingenue frisson.
For some of us, the drought of Pfeifferian glamour has become
something of a crisis. "There are lots of things I can do," she says
with a flattered sigh, "but I don't think I can play an ingenue; I
can't be 20 anymore." It's a cruel world when Michelle Pfeiffer has
to answer insulting questions about life after 40 while a 69-year-
old Sean Connery can canoodle Catherine Zeta-Jones, 29, in En-
trapment (Connery was a wee pup of 60 when he took on Pfeiffer,
32, in The Russia House). She should probably be pissed. She is-
n't. In fact, she isn't even sure who Catherine Zeta-Jones is. "I
have no idea what's happening out there," Pfeiffer says with a
laugh. "I'm completely out of touch." Then, turning serious, she
adds: "I'm at an age now where I'm right to play a mother and
have a family; it would make sense that those things would reoc-
cur. I don't really feel limited, or that I can't be sexy. I don't. I take
projects because I like them. And I can certainly do a love story."
Which brings us to the love story called The Story of Us, the lat-
est from Rob Reiner, director of When Harry Met Sally. The Story of
Us centers on a crossword-puzzle designer (Pfeiffer) and a writer
(Willis) splitting up after 15 years of marriage-or, as it's tagged in
the trades, When Harry Left Sally. Though the film continues
Pfeiffer's dysfunctional phase, it affords her a little ingenue action,
especially when she addresses the camera in a burnt-orange cash-
mere V-neck. Story also lets Pfeiffer play with a Slinky, prepare pad
thai, pronounce "Kierkegaard," make love on a kitchen table, shriek
"fuck you!" (a task she's excelled at since Scarface) and-some-
thing she's never done before-whisper "fuck me" to Bruce Willis.
"When we were rehearsing," Willis recalls, "I said, 'Look, you've
done more of this romantic stuff than I have. How am I gonna con-
vince people we've been together for 15 years?"" Willis came up
with an unorthodox preparation: "I decided to flirt with her every
day with her permission, of course." In Story, Pfeiffer aces the ro-
mantic stuff, as always, but the film truly showcases her talent for
physical comedy. "How hard is it to run screaming down the street
with a gun?" Willis says. "Trust me, comedy is much tougher."
Reiner first noticed Pfeiffer's gift for comedy in her 1988 film
Married to the Mob. "It's very difficult to find people who can play
reality-based humor," says Reiner. "You look down the list and
there's not a big selection. Frankly, I think Michelle is so beautiful,
a lot of people can't see past that. But she can literally do any-
thing." In the interest of proving that she can do anything, Pfeiffer
will follow Story with her first supernatural thriller, What Lies Be-
neath, directed by Robert Zemeckis and costarring Harrison
Ford. After that, the dysfunctional phase will finish. "I don't want
to go near the human-suffering tragedy thing for a long time,"
she says. "I'm spent. Don't wanna go there."
Let us go instead to Michelle Pfeiffer's real life: the domestic,
nondysfunctional trilogy of husband, children and work. The chil-
dren, Claudia Rose, six, and John Henry, five, are healthy. ("Every-
one tells you how great parenthood is," she says. "It's harder than
you ever imagined; it's also better than you ever imagined.") The
work is widely known (consider her leading men: Pacino, Nichol-
son, Malkovich, Gibson, the brothers Bridges, Connery, Clooney,
Day-Lewis, Redford and, now, Willis and Ford). Martin Scorsese
once proclaimed her "the best we have." Reiner calls her "a thor-
oughbred-the Rolls Royce of actors."
But there remains intense curiosity about relations with the
Husband. As virtually any living being can tell you, Pfeiffer is
married to lawyer-turned-television-producer-turned-zeitgeist-
wrangler David E. Kelley. During the first three of their six years
together, Kelley was sometimes dismissed as Mr. Pfeiffer. Then he
created Ally McBeal and The Practice and became a media war-
lord, which made him fresh meat for his own tabloid frenzy. While
Story was filming, rumors swirled that Kelley and Ally McBeal star
Calista Flockhart were having an affair (a nicely timed if entirely fic-
titious complement to the real-life hemorrhaging of Willis and
Demi Moore's marriage). Knowing this, I propose a limit of two
conjugal questions in exchange for full disclosure. She is not
appeased. The hands start fidgeting between her knees again.
Q: You met David on a blind date. How can Michelle Pfeiffer
have a blind date?
A: Is that your second question?
Q: Um, it was a two-part question.
A: That's still two.
Q: All right, three questions.
It turns out Pfeiffer and Kelley's first date wasn't technically
"blind," the way your Uncle Lenny might go on a blind date. "A
friend fixed me up,” she explains. "And I invited the world. It was a
group thing. We all met and went bowling."
In the period before Kelley was famous (pre-Ally McBeal), his
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
PHOTOGRAPHS, THIS SPREAD, FROM LEFT: ALAN BERLINER/GAMMA LIAISON; GREG
MICHAEL FERGUSON/GLOBE PHOTOS: RALPH NELSON: LISA ROSE/GLOBE PHOTOS.
NORMAN/GAMMA LIAISON; RALPH DOMINGUEZ/GLOBE PHOTOS; GLOBE PHOTOS;
