frst
person
When you're on the circuit for a book about
feminism, cluelessness can turn dangerous.
("So, Ms. Faludi, I just loved your book about your mom!") I'll
be lucky if they just don't read it. At least, I say petulantly to
my boyfriend, the dunderheadedness you encountered was
relatively benign. When you're on the circuit for a book about
feminism, cluelessness can turn dangerous. Facing the im-
pending tour, I remember my last one, a media transit for
Backlash, a feminist account of the cultural attack on inde-
pendent women in the '80s. It makes me wish for amnesia.
Memories of such trenchant and original questions as:
Q: Isn't feminism dead?
Well, no, at least this little embodiment of it isn't dead, yet. I
wanted to say: I'm still alive and generally well, and sitting right
in front of you. But tangible evidence of that sort never seems
to stop the rain of preconception. To be declared a feminist on
a book tour is to try endlessly to impart a few organic and per-
haps original ideas against a tsunami of stereotypes. Just try
talking about the serious implications of reproductive rights.
Q: Do you shave your underarms?
That's a particularly peculiar question to ask a guest
who has just emerged, spray lacquered from a 20-minute
session in the dressing room. ("Um, do you think my lips
are just naturally platinum-frosted lilac?") Nonetheless, the
specter of the fashion-challenged feminist has long
reigned. ("Heated and disheveled Amazons," as one typi-
cal press tirade against suffragists put it in 1914, "strange
types, shorn of all the glory of sex." Or, as Rush Limbaugh
put it, "Bunch of cows! Moo!")
Once, while I was cooling my heels in a certain TV show's
greenroom, the producers burst in with a suggestion:
Q: "How about we have you appear on the set in a
bathrobe and rollers!"
(At least they had a sense of humor; sexists tend to be
so humorless.) The media's constant companions-adver-
tisers are no more logical on this score, like the shoe
company that asked me if I wanted to appear in one of
their commercials for high heels. Or, even more bizarrely,
the cosmetic-surgery center that telephoned after the me-
dia tour to ask me if I'd endorse their ad for silicone breast
implants. "But I don't have implants," I said. "That's okay,"
the center's representative assured me. "We just want to
use your name because you're a feminist." But never mind;
don't be disconcerted if the stereotypes conflict with one
another. In the realm of media response to feminism, the lion
lies down with the lamb and it's no problem. Example:
Q: Come on, do you deny that at heart, all of you femi-
nists hate sex and hate men?
One talk-show host even helpfully illustrated this point
by holding up a witchlike caricature of me in that sex-and-
woman loving publication, The American Spectator, as if a
cartoon figure in a right-wing magazine was smoking-gun
proof of my male-trashing tendencies.
Anyway, just as I've explained, for the 99th time, that I think
sex and men are swell, along comes a dialectic shift like the
impeachment of President Clinton, where overnight the
stereotypes are flipped-and now I'm getting slammed for
not being antisex and antimale enough. Just a few years
back, conservatives had typecast all feminists by the most
prudish and extreme among them-and the media happily
parroted its old line. ("Why do you feminists think all sex is
rape?" a typical newscaster huffed at me.) But then anti-
Clintonites saw a way to skewer the president-by claiming
that all of his sexual escapades violated "feminist" principles.
Suddenly the conservatives adopted the most prudish and
extreme position on sexual harrassment-and they were
beet-red mad when women's rights leaders wouldn't play
along. "Where are all the feminists?" they howled in the
press. (Who cares if that dalliance with Monica Lewinsky was
consensual, they insisted; isn't all sex rape?) Soon, the me-
dia had taken up the cry, and you're suddenly getting this
question from the same faces:
Q: Why are you feminists deserting your principles and
giving this womanizer a free ride?
In other words, we've spent years calling you a frigid man
hater, and now, dammit, why aren't you acting like one?
But oh, well. The book's the thing. And having written an-
other feminist book, which, as should be clear from the
title-Stiffed: The Betrayal of the American Man—is also an
empathetic account of the plight of men, I prepare uneasily
for round two in the media ring. The problem men and
women face these days, I argue in Stiffed, isn't simply each
other's fault. Women's independence isn't men's real enemy,
nor is "innate" male aggression women's prime affliction.
Both sexes are beset by a larger force that demeans them, a
consumer, entertainment and celebrity culture, a juggernaut
to which the media, in no small measure, contributes. If men
complain increasingly of feeling "feminized,” it's because
they are increasingly living in a shopping-mall-and-multiplex-
ruled world where people are measured in commercial and
ornamental terms-by how they look, not by what they do or
whether what they do has social utility. Feminism is not the
cause of men's agonies; in fact, as one of the few move-
ments opposing the objectifying effects of consumerism, it
may just be men's best hope for a more masculine future.
Good luck getting that by the keepers of the media
stereotypes. I can just imagine the sputtering bafflement.
Q: But this book is sympathetic to the other sex! Aren't
you a traitor to the feminist cause?
As it happens, I don't have to imagine a response. My fax
machine has sprung to life and spit out my first review-
from a glossy monthly magazine in New York. And, uh-oh, I
can see where the reviewer's going.
Q. With that "stiffed" in the title, will this be a wistful look
back at the erections of yesteryear? And:
Q. Will the publisher be putting some Viagra in with the
promotional material?
Truly stupid, right? But then the reviewer admits that he
hasn't read, or even seen, the book, though, he says, "we
can guess at the contents." Which leads me to a question
of my own...
Q: Isn't the media dead?
84
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
