ose
"If you come to me and say, 'I hear you're a bigot, I hear
you're a pedophile, I hear you cheat on your taxes,' you bet
your ass I'd stand up and defend myself, because those are
things I don't want to be associated with and I find repre-
hensible. But what's wrong with gay people? Why should I
be pressed to stand up and say I'm not one of them?"
Spacey may choose not to take journalists on a personal
journey of his experience, but when you meet him he's
much funnier and more intimate than expected. While he
was at Juilliard, he began his professional career doing im-
pressions as a stand-up comedian, and during the course
of lunch, as he chats and picks at the salmon he has or-
dered from the still giggling waitress, his voice drops un-
cannily in and out of some of those he's admired or met or
worked with. Right in front of my eyes he morphs into
Johnny Carson, Katharine Hepburn, John Gielgud, Danny
DeVito, Jack Lemmon and Al Pacino. These last two have
become his career guides as well as close friends. He still
has the photograph Lemmon signed for him as a kid, and it
was Pacino who gave him his first big break in the movies,
in Glengarry Glen Ross, and later invited him to be his co-
conspirator in the Shakespeare documentary Looking for
Richard. Spacey both acted in the film and tagged along
Spacey and costar
Annette Bening
act out an icy
marriage in
American Beauty.
for the ride, sitting off camera while Pacino conducted his
interviews with scores of noted academics, directors and
actors. Now Spacey speaks of Lemmon and Pacino with a
humor and warmth that borders on veneration, giving a
glimpse of the Kevin Spacey who once was, and to some
extent still is, the nerdiest of theater fans. It occurs to me-
putting aside all consideration of who he is as a private in-
dividual-that this is who Kevin Spacey is becoming as an
actor, a shotgun marriage of Lemmon and Pacino, two
great American performers and stars who seem, on the
face of it, improbable bedfellows.
"He's a strategist as an actor, and like Lemmon he doesn't
look like a film star," agrees Mendes. "While we were shoot-
ing American Beauty we talked a lot about The Apartment
and the way Lemmon made that character so real and nor-
mal, right down to the way his hair changed through the
course of the movie, becoming both more and more dis-
tressed and yet more and more true to his inner self. Kevin's
concentration is like a laser beam. And like Pacino, you al-
ways feel certain he's going to find those moments that will
make the hairs stand up on the back of your neck."
Spacey has worked enormously hard these last two
years, turning his career in this new direction that seems to
fit so well. In between productions of Iceman in London and
New York (where he lives along with his dog in a small
Greenwich Village apartment), he shot three movies back-
to-back: American Beauty, Ordinary Decent Criminal, based
on the life of the Irish gangster Martin Cahill, and The Big
Kahuna, produced by Spacey's own Trigger Street Produc-
tions, a $2 million movie about two salesmen in which he
stars with a pal from L.A. Confidential, Danny DeVito.
Spacey set up his production company to make low-budget
films that will both bolster his credibility and keep him
steadily supplied with good parts should the studio well run
dry. He's already talking about a screen version of Iceman,
and foresees a small run of films based on plays, because
the material is on hand and he sees a ready way into it.
"I'm just as susceptible as anybody to the things that
pull and tempt you," Spacey says. "You have to seek out
people and material that are sincere and driven by a simi-
lar sensibility to your own. Pretty obviously I'm not only in-
terested in making lots of dough and being famous. As far
as Hollywood goes, I don't want to contribute to the prob-
lem, whatever I perceive the problem to be."
What does he perceive the problem to be?
"Oh, it's massive. It's massive, and it's ugly," he says
with a big grin, too smart, too damned relaxed to be
drawn into a harangue about the ills of the movie industry.
He's at a happy place in his career and, besides, he's
about to go on vacation. So Spacey calls over the wait-
ress and asks for another iced swirly mocha thing.
74
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
CARDIGAN, WILKE-RODRIGUEZ; T-SHIRT, GUCCI; PANTS, PRADA. GROOMING: KATHERINE FURNACE FOR CELESTINE.
