bo
OKS
Space invaders?
Explorer Freya Stark
sentimental
Liv Ullmann (left)
with her daughter
Linn, 1979
It's time to start cooking again-not flipping
burgers or mixing instant lemonade, but cook-
ing. Thomas Keller's French Laundry Cookbook
F
reya Stark roamed the Middle East in the
first half of this century, discovering lost
fortresses and generally proving herself
the perfect mate for Indiana Jones. In a
comprehensive biography, Passionate
Nomad: The Life of Freya Stark (Random
House), Jane Fletcher Geniesse treks to Damascus,
concentrating on Stark's exploits rather than the psy-
chology behind them. It's the tale of one woman's
powerful need for knowledge, with harrowing adven-
tures, narrow escapes and brilliant acts of espionage.
Wendy Kaminer's Sleeping With Extra-Terrestrials:
The Rise of Irrationalism and Perils of Piety (Pan-
theon) is a head trip, not a road trip. The book is a
study of the "unadulterated emotionalism" of our time,
and an argument for rationality over supernaturalism.
America in the '90s, according to Kaminer, is a "cele-
bration of subjectivity" in
which 49 percent of the na-
tion's population believes
the government is hiding
knowledge of aliens' visits
to earth. Kaminer's critiques
journeys
This month, a slew of new books of mystic phenomena, from
explores a range of exotic
landscapes. By Maggie Kirn
Waiting
HA JIN
guardian angels to weeping
statues, make for an enter-
taining read that leads one to question whether the
information age is really all that informed.
Linn Ullmann's debut novel, Before You Sleep (Viking),
follows its heroine, Karin Blom, on an emotional inner
journey, the treacherous path through marriage and
motherhood. Ullmann is the daughter of actress Liv
Ullmann and existentialist film director Ingmar Bergman,
and reading her saga of a troubled family in stark and
stoic Oslo, one can't help but think about her source ma-
terial. The familiar prose and disquietingly intimate story
give the book a cinematic clarity that keeps you reading.
In Waiting (Pantheon), writer Ha Jin transports us
to 1960s China, the home of Lin Kong, a middle-
aged doctor trapped between a lover in the city and
a wife in the country. There's nothing worse than a
poorly written love story, and heaven knows the
world is full of them, but when the genre is handled
deftly there's nothing sweeter. Jin, a poet, chronicles
Lin's life with such well-chosen words and unfussy
sentences that it's his prose we end up falling for.
What's Cooking?
France (Abrams), another narrative-cum-cook-
book, includes 40 recipes along with poetic
reveries on French cuisine. The recipes feature
THE MAKING OF A
(Artisan), from the Napa Valley restaurant of the traditional fare, like gigot d'agneau, and some pastry
same name, offers Ph.D.-level recipes with in-
gredients such as spotted skate wing and tech-
niques like shirring. Only slightly less challeng-
ing is The Making of a Pastry Chef (John Wiley
& Sons), which isn't a traditional cookbook but
the story of a cooking education punctuated
with recipes for complicated masterpieces like
Pistachio Rosewater Ice Cream Sandwich on
Espresso Pizzelle With Chocolate Sauce. Ismail
Merchant's Paris: Filming and Feasting in
of the director's own creations. Merchant's
titles go heavy on the words incredibly and
instant, as in Ismail's Incredibly Instant Chick-
en. But in spite of the Betty Crocker-ish lan-
guage, the dishes sound good. Houghton Mif-
flin's newest addition to the Best American se-
ries, The Best American Recipes 1999 (can The
Best American Ab Exercises be far behind?) is
a well-rounded, everyman's cookbook, the per-
fect place to earn your culinary B.A.
Revigat und
inspiration
AMERICOT
Rastry Chafe
Andian Mochaucklan
THE FRENCH LAUNDRY COOKBOOK
THEWAY WESLEY
☐
THE BEST
AMERICAN
RECIPES
1.9.9.9
ISMAIL MERCHANTS
PARIS
Filming
and
FRAN MCCULLOUGH
A SUZANNE HAMLIN
172
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Feasting
France
PHOTOGRAPHS, CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: COURTESY OF RANDOM HOUSE; NO CREDIT; CORBIS/BETTMAN; NO CREDIT (2).
