m
SC
Angie Martinez
the female
phat boys
These women are mixing it up and stepping
Andrea Parker
DJ Rap
York station Hot 97, is about to
release her first album. Their ef-
forts illustrate where contempo-
rary music by women seems to be
headed: away from the lead-footed
world of bands and into the jet
stream of a career that need not
depend on any single format.
After a decade on the London
scene, DJ Rap-the musical handle
of 30-year-old deejay, singer, song-
writer and former model Charissa
Saverio-released her break-out album earlier this year.
Learning Curve (Columbia) is Madonna-style pop sieved
through Rap's mastery of what producers call the desk (the
knobs, levers and computers that create a signature
sound). "I don't need a relationship. I don't need sex. I just
need this," says Rap, who has long been a hard-core jungle
deejay, and will return to that macho preserve when she re-
leases her second drum and bass album this month.
Andrea Parker's Kiss My Arp (Mo' Wax/Beggars Banquet),
released this month, is another deft blending of vocals and
technological wizardry. Praised for bringing a welcome shot of
melody and with it a rich emotional quality-into an often
cold, mechanical form, Parker's album is a far cry from the
brittle techno sound inherent in the genre. "I don't sample
out from behind the turntables. By Alison Powell from other people, I compose," she says. "It's not very innova-
T
he cult of the deejay has made an impact on
music far beyond anything we imagined back
when it was just about a bunch of guys lugging
boxes full of records. Some of the hottest
sounds of the past few years have come from
deejays like Fatboy Slim, the Chemical Brothers,
Underworld and Kruder & Dorfmeister, sampling and mixing
their way to success with best-selling albums and packed
houses (which often feature said deejays doing little more than
looking nerdy behind the decks). As for their female counter-
parts, it's still fairly unusual to find women spinning in night-
clubs. And those who have parlayed their mixing skills into
performance and recording contracts are rarer still.
But that's changing. English club personalities DJ Rap
and Andrea Parker have both taken control of the mixing
board and turned out fresh, funky disks that fuse the
best of pop and electronica. In the United States, Angie
Martinez, a radio deejay with the drive-time slot on New
tive to take a sample and change it slightly-that's why I use
my own analog synths and make my own sounds."
Martinez, 26, who has been influential in breaking rap
and hip-hop acts on the air, including the late Biggie
Smalls, hooked up with Mary J. Blige, Fat Joe and Busta
Rhymes, to name a few, to create her debut album, Up
Close & Personal (Elektra). Scheduled for release next
month, the record is straight-up hip-hop and gives Martinez
an outlet that her job as a professional deejay—even in the
age of personality—can't provide.
All three women have extensive tours planned for late
fall, and look for more female deejays to launch their own
acts in the near future. New York City club favorite
Samantha Ronson is recording demo tracks with her
nascent rock group, Little Red. "I spin hip-hop and rock,
but I really love rock & roll," says the 22-year-old step-
daughter of Foreigner's Mick Jones. And no doubt others
like her will find that it's no longer enough to drop the
needle; the real thrill is in raising the stakes.
176
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
PHOTOGRAPHS, CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: ZOREN GOLD; PEROUL/RETNA; NO CREDIT.
