horo
scopes
le's
Libra
144/72
Librans make perfect partners in theory, anyway. Their finer points are celebrated:
Delightful manners, love of peace and ability to create beautiful environments. But
if you don't like that sort of thing, their refusal to show passion can be maddening.
Libra (September 24-October 23)
The New Moon spreads goodwill and opti-
mism on the 9th, and resolves a partner's be-
havior toward you six to 12 months ago.
Because your planetary pressures operate in
a roundabout and discreet manner, you
should reserve time for yourself. Family busi-
ness, property deals and major purchases will
add excitement around the 15th. Confound
partners' prejudices and show them what
you're really made of, especially after the 18th.
Scorpio (October 24-November 22)
Mercury, the symbol of all bright ideas, will in-
tersect with your sign on the 4th and prompt
you to create brilliant proposals. Change will
occur at home after the 10th, when the
Moon enters the picture. You might be a little
more emotional than usual, but that could be
wonderful if it adds compassion for a loved
one. Intense feelings will heighten the risk of
random rows after the 15th. If this doesn't
appeal to you, then take evasive action.
Sagittarius (November 23-December 22)
Jupiter, your generous planetary ruler, is in
a spectacularly successful position. De-
spite delays, you'll have plenty of time and
can wait for your rewards. If your energy
levels dip after the 2nd, they should recov-
er by the 8th, and you'll be pushing ahead
with new personal priorities after the 15th.
Everything carries a cost, though, and
you'll pay for your dreams by settling out-
standing debts after the 17th.
Capricorn (December 23-January 20)
Venus' interaction with big-hearted Jupiter
from the 7th to the 10th is as close to roman-
tic bliss as you could wish for. Allow yourself
to daydream and indulge your vivid imagina-
tion. While you're at it, leave duties and details
to the experts. You'll take control after the
18th, issuing orders and working incessantly.
After all, if a job is worth doing, it's worth do-
ing yourself. Your first task after the 21st is to
complete unfinished business at home.
Aquarius (January 21-February 19)
Events this month are strikingly similar to
those in the past. Certain circumstances are
indeed being repeated, but with a positive
gloss. You'll correct mistakes after the 5th,
and may accept an offer you initially re-
fused. Emotional upheaval will cause raised
eyebrows around the 10th, and a friend
should offer an overdue apology. Impressive
lunar alignments from the 18th to the 20th
stress the importance of your aspirations.
Pisces (February 20-March 20)
Venus spreads passion through areas of your
chart connected to intimate relationships and
may set your heart fluttering after the 8th. In
stant attractions cause you to fall in or out of
love with ease. You'll be up for a domestic re-
ality check around the 15th, and might find
that your feelings have run away with you.
Consider other people's feelings, because if
you do, they'll return the favor. Your faith
should be repaid after the 21st.
Aries (March 21-April 20)
Managing your partnerships is a matter of dis-
tinguishing what is possible and what is not.
It's also a question of deciding what you can
and cannot afford. The New Moon on the 9th
will deliver some answers, but you might have
to keep loved ones waiting. An indecisive peri-
od will end between the 17th and 21st, and
by the 29th you should take the high ground
and hog the limelight. The stars can't promise
that partners will listen, though.
Taurus (April 21-May 21)
You may be seized by new ambitions and
desires, and you could receive intriguing invi-
tations as early as the 3rd. If you have the
courage to let go of the past, it won't be long
before the same opportunities come around
again in a much more agreeable form. Venus'
entry into your sign after the 8th reminds you
that you are meant to enjoy yourself. You'll
find guidance after the 18th, and you might
resurrect a relationship from long ago.
Gemini (May 22-June 21)
You'll shift into an intense, secretive phase
after the 5th, and a discreet suggestion
may prompt a good, hard look at your
personal and professional options around
the 15th. You can help matters by encour-
aging loved ones to maximize their talents.
The key to success in matters of the heart
after the 21st is communication. Partners
can satisfy your needs if they know how
you feel and what you want.
Cancer (June 22-July 23)
Your domestic sensibilities will soar as you
contemplate a relocation, a property deal or
additions to your family. The New Moon on
the 9th guides you toward harmonious condi-
tions, and you'll be able to put your plans into
effect once Mars adjusts its position from the
16th to the 18th. After the 20th, you'll be re-
minded of unfinished tasks that you now wish
were overlooked. A time may come when
partners realize that you were right all along.
Leo (July 24-August 23)
You'll settle into new positive conditions and
fresh feelings. Stay ahead of the field by tack-
ling all practical matters before the 10th, no
matter how small. Your sheer enthusiasm will
help you overcome temporary obstacles.
Deal with lingering domestic duties around
the 20th, and you may be pleasantly sur-
prised, especially if a private wish comes true.
By the 25th you may even benefit from deci-
sions you made as long as 15 years ago.
Virgo (August 24-September 23)
Your stars will change for the better after the
8th. Your mood will improve as you become
more relaxed, and you'll grow even more at-
tractive. Still, you understand reality enough
to know that you must tackle major worldly
and professional goals; you may expect wel-
come developments after the 13th. Languid
lunar alignments after the 21st remind you to
indulge yourself. A passionate outburst after
the 23rd brings its own pleasures.
Nick Campion delivers a new message for each sign weekly on Bazaar's exclusive Astrological Hotline. Call 900-740-0900; $1.50 per minute.
By Nick Campion
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
268
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
JANET BELLER
