the
ater
K
Isn't it romantic? Kiki
(Justin Bond), left,
and Herb (Kenny
Mellman) strike a pose.
iki & Herb are cabaret's answer to The
Blair Witch Project: no budget, lots of
underground buzz and so frightening
to watch. With her smeared makeup
and a signature bow on her matted
bouffant, Kiki (Justin Bond), accompa-
nied by her wordless piano-playing sidekick, Herb
(Kenny Mellman), pours her heart out (as well as pour-
ing more than a few Canadian Club and gingers). She
relives her life story through her own slurred song
stylings Pearl Jam mixed with Bing Crosby-explain-
ing how show business has destroyed her, but that she
cannot, ladies and gentlemen, live without it.
For example, Kiki always wanted a Bob Mackie dress, so
she looked through the garbage outside of Carol Burnett's
house in Beverly Hills, "and that, ladies and gentlemen, is
the dress you see before you today. With me in it."
Bond and Mellman began performing a conventional drag
revue in San Francisco in the early '90s. Then one night,
consoling themselves with alcohol in front of a less than full
house, their monster alter egos as drink-and-drug-addled
former mental patients were born. Since then, the decadent
duo has played everywhere from New York to L.A., Australia
to Canada, and even at Madonna's 39th birthday party.
Next up for Kiki & Herb? "We're working on a CD called
Kiki & Herb: Tainted Royalty," purrs the chanteuse. They
are playing at Fez in New York City through November,
then they segue into their infamous Christmas show. Last
year, Kiki belted out a medley of "Rudolph the Red-Nosed
Reindeer," "Smells Like Teen Spirit" and Kate Bush's "Run-
ning Up That Hill," so anything is possible.
Spalding
Gray
Woody
Harrelson
kiki & herb
The glitterati's favorite dysfunctional, drink-
Swilling, downtown nightclub act gives Susan
Kittenplan a taste of the lush life.
Fall Preview
Familiar faces, revivals and new twists on classics
make for a great season ahead. Look out for mu-
sicals of Jane Eyre and James Joyce's The Dead
... Woody Harrelson makes his Broadway debut
as the huckster who changes a small town in
N. Richard Nash's The Rainmaker... Honey-
voiced Audra McDonald plays a modern-day
Medea in Marie Christine ... Morning, Noon and
Night is Spalding Gray's latest, a monologue
about watching his children grow up... Shake-
speare out of love: A new version of Kiss Me,
Kate stars Brian Stokes Mitchell and Marin Mazz-
ie Liev Schreiber plays Hamlet at New York's
Public Theater... Hysteria, about the last days of
Sigmund Freud, is directed by John Malkovich at
Chicago's Steppenwolf Theatre Dancing at
Lughnasa playwright Brian Friel's new drama is
Give Me Your Answer, Do! ... The Glimmer Broth-
ers, about a family of jazz musicians, is written by
Side Man's Warren Leight ... Amadeus, directed
by Sir Peter Hall, returns to Broadway ... Dutch
director Ivo van Hove brings us an avant-garde
take on Tennessee Williams' A Streetcar Named
Desire ... Neil Simon premieres a new comedy,
The Dinner Party, at L.A.'s Mark Taper Forum ...
The Sondheim musical revue Putting It Together
will star Carol Burnett every night except Tues-
days, when Kathie Lee Gifford will hit the stage. ■
178
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
PHOTOGRAPHS, FROM TOP: TERRY RICHARDSON, FASHION
EDITOR, BEAU QUILLIAN, GROOMING, NANCY SCHALL FOR
