beauty
secrets
Coed Cabinet
Ask Donovan what he uses for hair
and skincare, and Kirsty answers, "My
products!" What the two share: Kiehl's
Silk Groom, Nature's Gate Herbal
Moisturizing Lotion, fragrance (Thierry
Mugler's Angel) and Lush bath bombs
(their house doesn't have a shower
yet). More proof of their true love: He
lets her use his razor, sometimes, and
Geo. F. Trumper Violet Shaving Cream.
Hippie Hipsters
It's easy to see why
Woodstock attracted this party
power couple. Kirsty combs
health-food stores (Sunflower
Natural Foods Market is a fave)
for herbs and natural remedies,
including horsetail ("It makes
hair grow"). And she and
Donovan enjoy hiking, cycling
and swimming near their cabin.
They also recently took a Tantric
yoga course in the Jemez
mountains, outside Santa Fe.
love
S
Glam Rock
Hanging out at home
in the country, Donovan
seems low-maintenance.
But when he's performing,
he's all makeup (Kirsty
helps him pile on the
glitter and eyeliner), hair
pomade (Black Diamond
from NYC's Mario Nico
salon) and funky clothes
("The day of a gig, I
might go crazy at
Patricia Field," he says).
o, who takes longer to get ready to go
out? Kirsty Hume and Donovan Leitch
are asked, and the answer is a polite
pause. "Kirsty takes longer," Donovan fi-
nally admits, adding that she's shortened
her prep time. You won't hear accusa-
tions of mirror- or expensive-shampoo-hogging
here. After two years of marriage, they're still in the
lovebird phase. They seem quite happy to be hiding
out in their little (but very charming) house in the
Woodstock, NY, forest, escaping the demands of
their Manhattan existence as social-circuit super-
model and aspiring rock star (Donovan, son of singer
Donovan, is front man for the band Nancy Boy).
While they've found the perfect place for downtime
between all the gigs, fashion shows and photo
shoots, the earthy surroundings make their sexy,
almost-all-natural glam stand out even more. Their
beauty secrets are a brilliant mix of hip and healthy.
shack
This marriage of model and rocker keeps it
real and fabulous-in a woodsy retreat.
By Gale Hansen
Kirsty's Hair
You can instantly see why it's been
called "the best hair in the business."
Thanks to Louis Licari and the occasional
lemon juice and chamomile flower tea
rinse, Kirsty's hair flows from her head in a
silky white-blonde sheet. While growing up
in Scotland she was tempted to cut it, but
her mother (who died when Kirsty was 16)
wisely said no. "Now I'm glad I listened,"
says Kirsty. "I'll never cut it. I'll be an old
lady with long hair." She considers caring
for it meticulously "part of the job."
(Okay, so she did dye it pink once.) Her
haircare arsenal: J.F. Lazartigue Vita-
Cream shampoo, Emerald Forest Botanical
Conditioner, jojoba oil, Kiehl's Leave-In
Conditioner and Bain de Terre Recovery
Complex. She often braids it to prevent
tangling, getting ideas from a "cheesy '70s
braiding book" Donovan bought for her.
JOJOBA O
apewod
Copyright © 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Model Makeup
"I don't really wear lipstick,
because if I do my lips take over my
face," says Kirsty. She sticks to lip balm
or Stila Lip Gloss in Red Shine for going
out. In addition, her mini-makeup bag
contains: Shu Uemura Compact Powder,
Maybelline Great Lash Mascara in Dark
Brown or Nars Black Mascara for "really
fancy" nights, Nars Eyebrow Brush, any
black kohl pencil and Make Up For Ever
Glitter in No. 2 Silver ("I always have
it, in case we go out somewhere!").
CATE
PHOTOGRAPHS, CLOCKWISE FROM BOTTOM RIGHT: DAVIES & STARR; LEONARDO CASALI (4), FASHION EDITOR, ROBBIN RASKIN SOLIS,
HAIR, MARCO SANTINI FOR KRAMER & KRAMER, MAKEUP, GREG VAUGHAN FOR LATELIER. SEE BUYLINE FOR DETAILS AND STORES.
