T-SHIRT, GUCCI.
close
THE SPACEMAN COMETH
Kevin Spacey won an Oscar in 1996 for his role as Keyser Soze in "The Usual Suspects." Now, thanks to
his career-changing performance in the stunning new movie "American Beauty," he'd better make room for
another one. By Richard Rayner. Fashion editor: Judith Guillemot. Photographed by Cliff Watts
K
evin Spacey is about to take a vacation, his
first in nearly two years. Three days after
closing on Broadway in his acclaimed re-
vival of Eugene O'Neill's four-and-a-half-
hour marathon The Iceman Cometh, he
bounces into one of his favorite Los Ange-
les haunts, a restaurant on Sunset Boulevard he'd rather re-
mained nameless. It's a place to meet and greet and hang
out, where the waitresses know him by his first name and he
enjoys them well enough to be inclined to joke and flirt.
"Make me one of those iced swirly frothy frappuccino mocha
things," he says to a young woman dressed modishly in
black. "What? What? Why do I make you laugh so much?"
he asks in a soft, deadpan voice, because she does, indeed,
seem to be giggling helplessly. "Am I so funny?"
This isn't at all the Kevin Spacey we know from his various
screen personae: the creepy criminal mastermind Keyser
Soze masquerading as a whining gimp in The Usual Sus-
pects (a turn for which he won an Oscar in 1996), the de-
mented serial killer who outwits Brad Pitt and Morgan Free-
man (two guys who usually never lose) in Seven, the bitter
loser squabbling and sniping with Judy Davis in The Ref, the
supercilious, faggy murderer Jim Williams in Midnight in the
Garden of Good and Evil and others. In the flesh, Spacey is
much more high energy and high spirited and odd, a mixture
of relaxation and precision. He's wearing sharp black pants
and a crisp white button-down shirt with a Pentel pen in the
pocket, and with his round, almost anonymous face, he
looks both bland and groomed, like an accountant about to
take a vacation, except for the black baseball cap that says
NYU FILM. Which is to say that Kevin Spacey doesn't strike
you at first as an actor at all, a fat irony, because he is the
consummate actor of his generation, an actor right down to
the very fiber of his no doubt immaculate cotton socks.
There are no airs and graces. His wristwatch is a black-
faced Gucci. He moves with Zen economy and an almost fe-
line delicacy. He has a scar above the lid of his left eye,
residue of an altercation with a cat named Prince Albert
when he was a kid growing up just over the hill from here, in
that purgatory otherwise known as the San Fernando Valley.
Spacey takes gum from his mouth, places it with exquisite
deliberation in the center of a spotless white ashtray and ea-
gerly hits his marks to talk about his new movie, American
Beauty, costarring Annette Bening and directed by first timer
Sam Mendes, a young English director whose work for the
stage includes the recent London and New York runs of
Cabaret and The Blue Room. American Beauty is the buzz
film of the fall, having been described by no less than Steven
Spielberg as the best thing he's seen in 10 years, and a re-
minder of why he himself wants to make movies-giddy-
making praise, even if Spielberg's own company, Dream-
works, did produce the picture. In talking about American
Beauty, for once it's right to reach for superlatives. This film
is howlingly funny, but not a comedy. It ends tragically, yet
reminds us of the beauty of life. It centers on the disintegra-
tion and renaissance of an executive, Lester Burnham
(Spacey), whose relationship with his wife (Bening, who lets
rip in ways both hilarious and terrifying) operates at a tem-
perature that makes the Arctic seem balmy. Although Lester
whacks off in the shower, lusts and drools over his daugh-
ter's sultry best friend and attempts to blackmail his boss
when he is fired, the movie concerns itself as much with ➤
BAZAAR OCTOBER 1999
Copyright 2015 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
71
