HARPER'S BAZAR.

- [Novemngr 2, 1867.

cong caring ‘Tulle veil and wreath
of orange blossoms.

Fig, 2.—Princesse dress of white mull, worn
over a high-necked wrist of Valenciennes lace
and insertion. Skirt tucked; waist trimmed
with bias folds of the same stuff. Tulle veil
and wreath of orange blossoms.

HARPER’S BAZAR.

Sarcrpay, Novemner 2, 1867.

=

@ Tur Seconp Numetk of Harper's
Bazan, for November 9, will be issued on Tues
day, the 29th of October, after which time a Num-
ber ‘will be published regularly every week.

“H Ladies in the Country will be supplied gra-
tuitously through the mails with the Trest Sx
Nospers or Harper's BAZAR upen written ap-
plication to the Publishers.

@ Single Subscribers to Harper's Bazar will
be supplied from the beginning to the end of the
year 1868, which will complete the first Volume,
“for the yearly price of Four Dollars.

OUR BAZAR.

BAZAR, in Oriental parlance, is not a

vulgar market-place for the sale of fish,
flesh, and fowl, but a vast repository for all the
tare and costly things of earth—silks, velvets,
cashmeres, spices, perfumes, and glittering
gems; in a word, whatever can comfort the
heart and delight the eye is found heaped up
there in bewildering profusion,

Such a repository we wish Harper's Bazar to
be, combining the useful with the beautiful, and
aiming to inelude every thing that will be inter-
esting to the family circle, for whose use it is
designed, Being intended largely for ladies,
it will devote a considerable space to the mat-
ters which fall particularly under their jurisdic.
tion, such as dress, and housebold affairs, In
this connection the fashions are naturally an
important subject ; three hundred millions of dol~
lars being annually expended in this country for
dry goods, the making up of which is executed
or superintended almost wholly by tite female
portion of the household. Ladies are inter-
ested, therefore, in securing correct information
as to the best and most economical mode of
fashioning this vast amount of raw material ;
and especially in obtaining patterns and prac-
tical directions which will readily enable them
to do this themselves or to have it done satis-
factorily by others.

To supply this want we have perfected spe~
cial arrangements wih the leading European
fashion journals, especially with the celebrated
Bazar of Berlin, which supplies the fashions to
the newspapers of Paris, whereby we receive
the same fashions in advance, and publish them
weekly, simultaneously with their appearance
in Paris and Berlin, the great centres of Euro~
pean modes, This advantage is shared by no
other newspaper in the country. Our readers
will thus be sure of obtaining the genuine
Paris fashions simultaneously with the Paris~
ians themselves, instead of from stray journals
three or four weeks old. That this is desira~
ble no one can doubt who knows the popular.
ity which every thing Parisian maintains in the
world of fashion, or has seen the curiosity with
which every lady's wardrobe is scrutinized on
her return from Paris, with a view to copying the
articles fresh from this great fashion emporium,
We shall also give in each alternate number of
our journal numerous patterns, accompanied
with plain and practical directions, readily un-
derstood, which wilt enable every lady, if she
chooses, to cut and make her own and her chil-
dren's entire wardrobe, with much of that of
her husband. Beautiful colored farhion-plates
will likewise be presented from time to time to
the patrons of Harper's Bazar.

With the Parisian modes will be combined a
chronicle of the fashions most in vogue in New
York, which in this respect may be styled the
Paris of America, Fancy work of all kinds
will also find room in our columns, together
with every department of household affairs,

i

the indulgence of the public.

EXPENSIVE MATRIMONY.

‘ARRIAGE is in a fair way, just now, to
become a standard topic for newspaper
ent. Half the editors in this land of crit-
ies are most gravely discussing the difficulties
that are accumulating in the path leading to the
bridal altar. We are glad to see the interest
that is taken in this matter. Newspapers are
the literature of common life; they are grand
equalizers of intellect by radiating those general
influences that concern every body’s instincts,
aims, and circumstances; and hence, if such
evils as are peculiarly social and domestic are
to be remedied, their agency is essential to the
good work.

But we are not quite sure that this subject is
properly handled. The most of our editorial
brethren are disposed to lay the blame on the
extravagance of the age, and particularly on the
expensive habits of our ladies. The burden of
complaint is every where the same. Editors
from Maine to New Orleans, discoursing on this
topic, write alike ; and the same fact—viz., the
excessive costliness of women—points the argu-
ment. If this is a true statement of the ques-
tion we have not much to apprehend, as the evil
will probably cure itself. Women will not be
likely to risk their chances of marriage for the
sake of indulging in extra show. he truth is,
however, that the extravagance of the day is af-
fecting the habits of our men more powerfully
than those of our women. Luxury and fashion
are costly things for both sexes. A woman's
follies in the expenditure of money usually ap-
pear on her petson and in some of ber ‘“sur-
roundings ;” but a man’s follies are none the less
dear because they are confined to the club-house
or known only to his intimate friends, If, then,
so many women are putting themselves out of

the reach of matrimony by their high notions of 4

style, is it not equally certain that just as many
men—perhaps more—are voluntarily placing
themselves in the same position by lavishing
thousands per annum on their own precious
selves?

‘The decrease of marriages in this country is
obviously among our most prosperous classes,
and it is comparatively limited to these sections
which are accumulating wealth most rapidly.
Men and women in these classes and sections
are alike enriched by the growing fortunes of
business and speculation. Sons and danghters
share in the father's gains. How, then, can
the evil bear on one sex to the exclusion of the
other? Observation has long since taught us,
that whenever fgmilies grow rich the sons are
more extravagant than the daughters—they de-
mand more money—they waste more money,
simply because the ways and facilities for wast-
ing it are much more numerous and accessible.
‘The main reason, therefore, why the number of
marriages in this class of our population is de-
lining is because the men choose to have it so,
and not because the women are beyond their
capacity to support, Three-fourths of the bach-
elors of our acquaintance are rich enough to
bear the expense even of the most fashionable
women; and, what is equally certain, they are
bachelors just because they are rich. Wealth
often indisposes men to marry, but it rarely has
this effect on women. At the period of life
when marriage begins to charm the fancy and
awaken the sensibilities our fast young men are
preoccupied. They have already, in most cases,
surrendered their souls to other captors. Dis-
sipation and licentiousness have utterly unfitted
them for poetry and love, and they vastly pre-
fer a midnight debauch to the pleasures of the

Copyright © 2017

ProQuest LLC. All

reserved.

rights

fireside and the companionship of a devoted
wife. Talk as we may, then, of the extrava-
gance of the age, it is corrupting our men far
more than our women; and it does this, not
only by its direct consequences, but by fostering

i too much of a conscience and a re-

‘Men soon outlive the sentiment of marriage.
Nature provides for its early development and
vapid growth. If between eighteen and twenty-
five years of age young men are absorbed with
their gross grati r, if they até moral
and have the excitements of fortune in posses-
sion or prospect—it commonly happens that
wise would prove. It is not felt as a present
want of their whole being; and as marriage
with men usually turns on thoughts and senti-
ments belonging to one given period of life, and
not as with women by a sort of prophetic antici-
pation of what their nature will need for matu-
rity and old age, the loss of youthful impressi-
bility is rarely recovered. There have always
been dissipated, licentious men. The fast age
is as old as the world, so far as Smith or Jones
has rioted in sensualism. But ths fast age
can not wait on advancing life as its prede-
cessors did. It forestalls hope and heart, It
is intensely eager for young blood and fresh
souls, Premature sots, gamblers, rakes abound.

crease in marriages is to be found. Vice plucks
out the hearts of hundreds of our young men—
plucks them out by the roots—and leaves them
no soul to admire and love virtuous women.

Marriage is God’s law, and men are not to
set it aside... In relation to his providential,
earthly government, it holds a position some-
what analogous to religion in his moral and
spiritual government. - All civilized society is
bound not only to recognize its sanctity, but to
encourage the extension of its ties and the oper-
ation of its restraints over the largest possible
number. The worst feature of the extravagance
of the age is its influence on our domestic char-
acter; but let it be remembered that there is
no sort of parallelism in its effects on the two
sexes, for where one young lady is spoiled by
it five young men are ruined.

SUITABLE DRESS.

HE uniformity of dress is a characteristic of
the people of the United States. The man
of leisure and the laborer, the mistress and the
maid, wear clothes of the same material and cut.
Political equality renders our countrymen and
countrywomen averse to all distinctions of cos-
tume which may be supposed to indicate a dif-
ference of caste. The uniformity which results
is not favorable to the picturesque, and our
everyday world in America has, in consequence,
the shabby look of being got up by the Jews in
‘Chatham Street and turned out in a universal
suit of second-hand clothing.

Our working-people, in vindicating their
claims to social equality, by putting on their
heads the stove-pipe hat and flimsy bonnet, and
clothing their bodies in tight-fitting covts and
flowing robes, not only interfere with the pictar-
esque, which is of minor importance, but make,
we think, an unwise sacrifice of comfort, con-
venience, and economy, What gould be more
unfavorable to that free movement of the mus-
cles essential to those trades and occupations re-
quiring the exercise of physical force than the
scant coat and tight-fitting trowsers now in
vogue? It would-be as well to put Hercules in
a strait-jacket, and set him thus accoutred to
slay the hydra, as for our muscular sons of la-
bor td clothe themselves in suits of fashionable
cut, and so to strive at their mighty work. Itis
surprising that the blouse of the French work-
man is not generally adopted. Nothing can be
more graceful, convenient, and economical. Its
lines are flowing, its form admits of perfect free-
dom of movement, and it can be made of a ma-
terial both cheap and lasting. Artists gener-
ally adopt the blouse for work in their studios,
and thus guarantee its tastefulness as well as
utility, The free American citizen has no rea-
son to scorn it as a symbol of slavery. The
French blouse has vindicated its title to the
drapery of a n in many a bloody encount-
er with tyranny"on the barricades and in the
streets of Paris.

As for the suitableness of the female dress of
fashion to working-day purposes no one will
venture, we suppose, to hold that crinoline is
convenient in the china-closet or safe in the
proximity of a red-hot stove, and that a flowing
train of silk is the most appropriate broom for
the kitchen floor. Crinoline and train, how-
ever, are constantly found in these inappropriate
places and dangerous proximities. We can not
for the world see why Bridget and Katarina,
and their mistress too, indeed, when the occa-
sion requires, should not dress appropriately—
to their spheres we do not say, but to their
ocenpations. They would be gainers in every
respect—in taste, comfort, convenience, and
economy. It is quite a mistake for the female

servant to suppose that by spending her money
| in gaudy dress and mock finery she advances
| her social position, though with her rustling silk
! she may pass in the dark, or, coming out of the

Now, it is just here that the source of the de- |

front-door‘on a Sunday, be taken at a distance
for her mistress. She may spend a half year's
wages on 4 flimsy bonnet, it will not avail her—
the sham Indy will still be manifest. If she has
personal charms of her own and desires that
they should be appreciated, let her take the ad-
vice of the tasteful, who will tell her that the
rude freshness of natural beanty appears to the
greatest advantage in a plain setting.

A white cap, a close-fitting jacket, with
sleeves neither so tight as to hinder movement
nor so loose as to lap up the gravy or sweep off
the sherty glass, and a short skirt of simple stuff
—plain or many-colored as it may be—make an
appropriate costume for the lousehold servant.
Scraps of cotton lace, bits of bright ribbon, and
collars and cuffs of linen, may be added accord-
ing to the taste. Any one who has seen the
picture of the Chocolate Girl of the Dresden Gal-
lery will not doubt of the picturesque capabili-
ties of a dress which was so effective in this
particular instance that it procured a rich and
titled husband for the original of the portrait. .

The female cap should be insisted on as an
essential to cleanliness by those who are not so
sentimental as to prefer to receive duily pledges
of the cook’s affection in the shape of locks of
hair in the soup. x

MANNERS UPON THE ROAD.
A Better toa young Papz.

Ma DEAR SIR,—You may have remarked
that nothing is more’ comical thaa the
free-and-easy way m which the independent
American citizen behaves in the railroad car.
The grave manner in which the presence of
other people is wholly disregarded 1s—as you
may have observed—often very diverting and
sometimes very exasperating. You, my dear
Sir, especially illustrated this great truth when
you entered the train with your family at Mug-
by Junction a few weeks since, upon which oc-
casion a select car-full had the honor of travel-
ing in your company.

You are evidently, dear Sir, a young and re-
cently-created papa, and therefore very much
is to be forgiven to you, as even an old cur-
mudgeon of a bachelor like your present corre-
spondent will cheerfally allow. There were, if
you will kindly remember, three ladies in your
party and a boy of fourteen, and many bags,
and bundles, and baskets, and what you were
pleased to’ call “‘satchels"—but, chiefly, there
was the baby. And here let a bachelor, not
naturally savage, declare upon his honor to all
traveling mothers with young children, that
he does not, with the ferocious Charles Lamb,
pledge the memory of the good king Herod,
whenever he hears the cry of the baby in the
car. Far from it, So far that there is nobody
he pities more than the sensitive mother whose
child will ery, and who struggles desperately to
console him, with the harrowing consciousness
that there are a remorseless multitade around
her who are internally, or even audibly, won-
dering and peevishly demanding “why on earth
women with young babies will be forever trav-
eling in the cars! Cars are no places for ba-
bies. Nurseries are the places for babies. If
babies must travel, why not provide a separate
car?” Alas! so populous is the kingdom of
Herod!

But, exasperated fellow-travelers, let us re-
flect. These poor mothers, often exhausted
and hopelessly contending with poor babies
equally exhausted, and hot, and suffocating,
and uncomfortable, are to be soothed in every
way and no derided and scolded. Do you sup-
pose women prefer to travel with babies? And
which, upon the whole, is the more edifying
spectacle—an uncomfortable child tired and
fretting, or a mature man querulous and sulky
because of the fretting! If you observe the
child do you suppose nobody observes you?
Why, my dear fellow-bachelor and curmudgeon,
we are all quietly watching and studying each
other at the rate, as we fly, of twenty-five miles
an héur.

Other women than the mothers understand
this if the men do not. How often men turn
round, and shrug their shoulders, and stare at
the hapless mother vainly humming to her tired
and restless child, while some woman, with a
few gentle words of kindness or experience to
the mother and of soothing to the child, con-
soles each, as if an angel had descended. I
read in the reports of the suffrage debate in the
New York Constitutional Convention a speech
in which the orator said that women were so
harsh and fierce in their judgments of each
other, that if women should ever sit as jurors
upon thejr accused sisters he could only say,
“God have mercy upon the accused!” What
a perpetual consolation to that eloquent orator
it must be to know that Providence bMS graci-
ously provided a sex to secure fair treatment to
women—and that he belongs to it! But his
experience is different from that of this bache-
lor who has never found the hands of women
reluctant, nor their hearts chill, nor their
tongues hesitating, whenever another woman
was to be relieved. Who betray women? Who,
when they are fallen, stretch out to them # help-
ing hand? ‘These last are they who in a crowd-
ed car sympathize with the travel-worn mother:
whose children weep and wail.
