Vol. XLVII. No. 5

May, 1913

HARPERS BAZAR

Beth Alcott’s

By
Lydia
Hosmer

Wood

HEN my grandchildren see the tears roll
down my cheeks, as I read Little Women,
they think I am just a little foolish and
sentimental, because they don’t understand

what it meant to me to follow my own old playmates, the
Alcotts, and to experience again the sorrow and the grief
that came to me with the death of the dearest of them,
“Beth.” The children laugh and cry, too, but they don’t
take every word to heart as I do, because they are not living
the past over again as I am, nor are they being flooded with
memories of people and times long past recall. To them it
is an interesting book—to me it is some of my girlhood
brought back with all its sad and its merry memories.

For I was Lydia Hosmer, one of the little girls of Concord
town who played beneath its famous old elms in the days
when it was building the foundations for the literary shrine
it has become to-day. My mother's house where my child-
hood was spent was built by Major Hosmer, my great grand-
father, who took part in the Concord fight of 1775.

The cottage next door, where the Alcotts lived for one
year and where Amy was born, was originally owned and
occupied by some of the Hosmer family. It was the first
of the five houses in which they lived in Concord, and the
one which is described in Little Women as ‘‘Meg’s dove-
“cote.” It has been said that they moved twenty-one times
within twenty-two years, but just how much foundation
there is for that statement I do not know. I do know,
however, that they were very poor.

The Spirit of Neighborliness :
AS my father had died when he was still a very young
man and had left his wife and five children with but
a little money for their support, my mother was having her
difficulties to meet her own needs and to bring us up properly;
but even so, she was able to give help of one kind or another
to the Alcotts. She couldn't loan money on their furniture,
as some of the neighbors did, but she frequently sent over
such food as her cows and her chickens permitted.

It was quite easy to find something which might be re-
garded as a bit of a delicacy for the children, who some-
times—and quite naturally—tired of a diet of boiled rice or
graham meal without even the addition of sugar or butter
or molasses to make it more palatable. In the summer-time,
as Louisa wrote in her journal, ‘We lived much as the birds
did, on our fruit and bread and milk; the sun was our fire,
the sky our roof, and nature’s plenty made us forget that
such a thing as poverty existed.”

It was not only necessity, but principle, that prescribed
this diet for the Alcott children. Their father, Bronson
Alcott, was a strict vegetarian who believed that any food
obtained by hurting or taking the life of an animal would
defile the body and, through it, the soul. This was a belief
that was quite common among the philosophers of that time;
I was too young to be affected by it, but my older sister,
Sarah, who, like Louisa Alcott, often went to the Emerson
house to talk with ‘‘the sage of Concord"’ and to borrow
hooks of him, adopted these ideas and adhered to them for
4 great many =

Mrs. Alcott, who came from two of the oldest families in
Boston—the Sewalls and the Ma: had to learn through
bitter experience to conquer her pride and to ¢ t gifts
from friends who understood her needs ‘as the wife of an

The house the Alcotts occupied when they were
neighbors of the Hosmers, at Concord

Copyright © 2017
ProQuest LLC. All rights

reserved.

Mrs. Wood at the time of her marriage fi

impractical idealist. Her husband, Bronson Alcott, was one
of the most lovable men one could ever hope to meet, so kind
and so wise, but he did not know how to make money, and
as a consequence, when his dear wife’s dowry was all gone
there was no further source of income. Money meant
nothing to him and he never seemed to understand why
they didn’t have any. He did teach school at different times,
but never with any financial success. One time, I know,
he brought home $1,000 after a tour out West during which
he had given a series of “conversations” in philosophy.

The Trip Abroad
HEN they lived in the cottage near our home and when
the children were very young, Amy a baby, some
friends offered to take him abroad with them. He accepted
with alacrity and the whole family seemed delighted at the
opportunity; if they thought about their means of sub-
sistence at all, it was probably with the conclusion that
“Heaven would provide,” and surely it was with that
thought, if with any, that the father ordered a new suit at
a Boston tailor’s shortly before sailing. When it was sent
home he turned to his wife and said in his delightful, absent-
minded way: “I don’t believe that I paid for that suit, but
if I didn’t you will attend to it, will you not, my dear?”

In answer, she only smiled in her quiet, patient way, never
mentioning the fact that all they had in the world to live
upon was a box of oatmeal standing upon the pantry shelf.

In spite of the poverty, theirs was one of the most hos-
pitable households I ever knew. We always felt welcome
and happy in this home which fairly radiated sweetness and
wholesomeness. The house may have been scantily fur-
nished, but it was always neat, and whatever they had was
good and pretty. As the mother and the girls had to do all
the housework themselves (the Hannah of the March house-
hold was a myth in the Alcott home), they were always very
busy about the house, but never too busy to romp and play.

Louisa, of course, was always the leader in the fun; it
seems to me that she was alw romping and racing down
the street, usually with a hoople higher than her head. That
was the best way in which she could give vent to the ex-
uberance of her spirits, I suppose.

She was continually shocking people, just as Jo does in
the book, by her tomboyish, natural, and independent ways.
Somewhere, in one of her earlier books, little read-to-day,
she tells the story of how she went down to the fields one
day, to talk to some men who were hoeing potatoes. As
they were chewing tobacco, Louisa, always curious and never
afraid, wanted to know what it was they were chewing, and
asked for a quid. When they gave it to her, she chewed it
so vigorously that she had to be carried home in a whecl-
barrow. The boy who was there when it happened, who
helped to get her home, and afterward told me all about it,
was my brother Cyrus, the “Cy” of the book.

A Novel Bath
HILE we are on the subject of their frugality and
their natural ways, which to others might have seemed
shocking, let me tell you of the novel method of taking a
bath adopted by the Alcott gifls. “As rain water is commonly
known to be a great beautifier and as systems of plumbing
such as we have to-day were practically unknown then, what
did they do but take a shower out on the little back piazza,
facing the grove and completely hidden from the gaze of
the passer-by, in nature’s most approved fashion, whenever
it rained.

One of the first things little girls ask me when they hear
that I used to play with the Alcotts is whether I ever took
part in their theatricals, so fascinatingly described in Little
Women.. No, “Beth” (Lizzie we always called her) and
I were more quiet and preferred to be audience, but I re-
member well some of the performances in which Louisa was
the stage-manager and Anna (she is Meg in the book) was
the servant-girl.

They were such a dear, conscientious family, so har-
monious and so lovable. The atmosphere of their house
was almost sanctified, so much better did you feel for having
been in it. There was so much love in their make-up, and
love was the only medium through which the parents ruled
and disciplined their children.

Louisa and May (Amy) were the unruly ones;
Lizzie were by nature more quict and subdued.

Anna and
Whenever

Playmate

A Glimpse of
Concord Town
in the Days of
“Little Women”

they did anything distasteful or naughty, instead of rebuking
Mr. or Mrs. Alcott would write them little
notes which they tucked under their pillows at night. After
due deliberation over their sins, the children then sent their
It was a lesson in humility, self-chastisement, and
self-expression, and it always seems to have had the desired
effect.

tiother method of punis!

hment which Mr. Alcott some-
times used was to serve a meal, and then, without eating any-
thing himself, he would ri ind leave the table. Naturally
the child with a conscience guilty with the thought of having
caused her father sufficient unhappiness to make him lose
his appetite would lose hers too, and until a reconciliation
could be effected felt thoroughly ashamed and disgraced.

“Remembering to be Good”
HE ‘“ Bon-box” was another device the Alcotts had for
remembering to be good. Inside the front door of their
house stood a box which served as the symbol of an honor
system, for into it, at the end of each day, the child who had
been good and hadn’t disregarded a single rule of conduct
dropped a little slip bearing her name and the code-word
“Bon” with three crosses after it, like this: X X X. It was
such a distinction to be a depositor at the end of the day,
that I asked whether I might be allowed to work for it, too.
I do not remember how often my name went into that box
attached to a Bon-slip, but I do know that I used to examine
my stock of virtues very carefully in those days.

I think that I m: ely say that no one now living knew
the Alcott family as well as I did, because I was practically
brought up with them for a while, as you see, and even
though I was away from Concord quite a bit later on, I
always saw a good deal of them whenever I returned for a
visit. As they learned all their lessons at home with their
father, we didn’t go to the same school, but together with
Ellen Emerson we did attend the same Sunday-school class
conducted by Mrs. Ralph Waldo Emerson. Later, when I
taught school in Concord myself, Mr. Alcott, who was then
chairman of the school board, used to come and preside for
a whole session, once a month.

In those days we had school from g to 12 in the morning
and then again from 1.30 to 4.30 in the afternoon, and on
Saturdays too. Vacations amounted to nothing, save for
a few days during the berrying season in the summer and at
Thanksgiving and Christmas time. The children’s heads,
consequently, were so crammed with facts that they hadn't
the time to acquire much knowledge. You can imag’
then, what a treat a nice, leisurely talk from Mr. Alcott was
for them. He would call their attention to the beauties of
the world that had been lost to sight in the search for dry
learning, would talk to them of big and wonderful things, and
divert their thoughts into channels quite different from those
in which they generally flowed.

What the Alcott Girls Looked Like
HENEVER people have asked me what the Alcott
girls really looked like, I have always said, ‘‘Quite a
little like the March girls in the book,” and now I add, “and
like the March girls in the play.” I don’t remember the
details of their coloring—you sce, it was over sixty years ago
(Continued on page 246)

Bronson Alcott, Beth’s father

